SoX(1)                                                                Sound eXchange_ng                                                                SoX(1)

NAME
       SoX - Sound eXchange_ng, another Swiss Army knife of audio manipulation

SYNOPSIS
       sox_ng [global-options] [format-options] infile1
            [[format-options] infile2] ... [format-options] outfile
            [effect [effect-options]] ...

       play_ng [global-options] [format-options] infile1
            [[format-options] infile2] ... [format-options]
            [effect [effect-options]] ...

       rec_ng [global-options] [format-options] outfile
            [effect [effect-options]] ...

DESCRIPTION
   Introduction
       SoX  reads  and writes audio files in most popular formats and can optionally apply effects to them. It can combine multiple input sources, synthesize
       audio and, on many systems, act as a general purpose audio player or as a multitrack audio recorder.  It can also split the input into multiple output
       files.

       All SoX functionality is available using just the sox_ng command.  To simplify playing and recording audio, if SoX is invoked as play_ng,  the  output
       file  is  automatically  set to be the default sound device and, if invoked as rec_ng, the default sound device is used as an input source.  Addition‐
       ally, the soxi_ng command provides a convenient way to query audio file header information.

       The heart of SoX is a library called libsox_ng.  Those interested in extending SoX or using it in other programs should refer to the libsox_ng  manual
       page.

       SoX  is  a  command-line audio processing tool particularly suited to making quick, simple edits and to batch processing.  If you need an interactive,
       graphical audio editor, use audacity(1).

                                                                        *        *        *

       The overall SoX processing chain can be summarized as follows:

                                                             Input(s) → Combiner → Effects → Output(s)

       On the SoX command line, the positions of the Output(s) and the Effects are swapped w.r.t. the logical flow just shown and, while  options  pertaining
       to  files are placed before their respective file names, the opposite is true for effects.  To show how this works in practice, here is a selection of
       examples of how SoX might be used.  The simple

          sox_ng recital.au recital.wav

       translates an audio file in Sun AU format to a Microsoft WAV file, while

          sox_ng recital.au -b 16 recital.wav channels 1 rate 16k fade 3 norm

       performs the same format translation but also applies four effects (down-mix to one channel, sample rate change, fade in and normalize) and stores the
       result at a bit-depth of 16.

          sox_ng -r 16k -e signed -b 8 -c 1 voice-memo.raw voice-memo.wav

       converts `raw' (a.k.a. `headerless') audio to a self-describing file format,

          sox_ng slow.aiff fixed.aiff speed 1.027

       adjusts audio speed,

          sox_ng short.wav long.wav longer.wav

       concatenates two audio files and

          sox_ng -m music.mp3 voice.wav mixed.flac

       mixes together two audio files.

          play_ng "The Moonbeams/Greatest/*.ogg" bass +3

       plays a collection of audio files applying a bass boosting effect,

          play_ng -n -c1 synth sin %-12 sin %-9 sin %-5 sin %-2 fade h 0.1 1 0.1

       plays a synthesized `A minor seventh' chord with a pipe organ sound,

          rec_ng -c 2 radio.aiff trim 0 30:00

       records half an hour of stereo audio and

          play_ng -q take1.aiff & rec -M take1.aiff take1-dub.aiff

       (with a POSIX shell and where supported by hardware) records a new track in a multitrack recording.  Finally,

          rec_ng -r 44100 -b 16 -e signed-integer -p \
            silence 1 0.50 0.1% 1 10:00 0.1% | \
            sox_ng -p song.ogg silence 1 0.50 0.1% 1 2.0 0.1% : \
            newfile : restart

       records a stream of audio such as an LP or cassette and splits it into multiple audio files at points where there are two seconds of  silence.   Also,
       it does not start recording until it detects some sound and stops after it sees ten minutes of silence.

       The above is just an overview of SoX's capabilities. Detailed explanations of how to use all SoX parameters, file formats and effects can be found be‐
       low in this manual, in soxformat_ng(7) and in soxi_ng(1).

   File Format Types
       SoX  can  work  with `self-describing' and `raw' audio files.  `Self-describing' formats (e.g. WAV, FLAC, MP3) have a header that completely describes
       the signal and encoding attributes of the audio data that follows. `raw' or `headerless' formats do not contain this information, so the audio charac‐
       teristics of these must be described on the SoX command line, except for a few which can be inferred from the filename extension such as .gsm,  always
       -c1 -r8000 -e gsm, and named raw formats like .f32, .s16 and .ul which give the encoding but not the sample rate or number of channels.

       The following four characteristics are used to describe the format of audio data:

       sample rate
              The  sample  rate  in  samples per second (`Hertz' or `Hz').  Digital telephony traditionally uses a sample rate of 8000Hz (8kHz) though 16 and
              even 32kHz are becoming more common. Audio Compact Discs use 44100Hz (44.1kHz), Digital Audio Tape and many computer systems use 48kHz and pro‐
              fessional audio systems often use 96kHz.

       sample size
              The number of bits used to store each sample.  Today, 16-bit is commonly used, 8-bit was popular in the early days of computer audio and 24-bit
              is used in the professional audio arena.

       data encoding
              The way in which each audio sample is represented (or `encoded').  Some encodings have variants with different byte-orderings or bit-orderings,
              some compress the audio data so that it takes up less disk space or transmission bandwidth than uncompressed formats.   Commonly-used  encoding
              types include floating point, μ-law, ADPCM, signed-integer PCM, MP3 and FLAC.

       channels
              The  number of audio channels contained in the file.  One (`mono') and two (`stereo') are widely used and `surround sound' audio typically con‐
              tains six or more channels.

       The term `bit rate' is a measure of the amount of storage occupied by an encoded audio signal per unit of time.  It can depend on all of the above and
       is typically denoted as a number of kilobits per second (kbps).  An A-law telephony signal has a bit rate of 64 kbps, MP3-encoded stereo  music  typi‐
       cally has a bit rate of 128-196 kbps and FLAC-encoded stereo music typically has a bit rate of 550-760 kbps.

       Most self-describing formats also allow textual `comments' to be embedded in the file that can be used to describe the audio in some way, e.g. for mu‐
       sic, the title, the author, etc.

       One  important  use  of  audio file comments is to convey `Replay Gain' information.  SoX can apply Replay Gain automatically for formats that contain
       comments but does not generate it.  By default, SoX copies comments from the first input file to output files that support comments, so  output  files
       may  contain  Replay  Gain information which is incorrect.  This can be fixed, when converting input files with --replay-gain enabled, by removing all
       comments using --comment "" or removing just the REPLAYGAIN comment with

       soxi_ng -a in.au | grep -v REPLAYGAIN > comments
       sox_ng --replay-gain=track in.au --comment-file comments out.au

   Determining and setting the File Format
       SoX uses several mechanisms to determine or set the format of an audio file.  Depending on the circumstances, individual characteristics may be deter‐
       mined or set using different mechanisms.

       To determine the format of an input file, SoX uses, in order of precedence and as given or available:

       1.  Command-line format options,

       2.  The contents of the file header,

       3.  The filename extension.

       To set the output file format, SoX uses, in order of precedence and as given or available:

       1.  Command-line format options,

       2.  The filename extension,

       3.  The input file format characteristics or the closest that is supported by the output file type.

       For all files, SoX exits with an error if the file type cannot be determined. Command-line format options may need to be added or changed  to  resolve
       the problem.

   Playing & Recording Audio
       The play_ng and rec_ng commands are provided so that basic playing and recording is as simple as

          play_ng existing-file.wav

       and

          rec_ng new-file.wav

       These two commands are functionally equivalent to

          sox_ng existing-file.wav -d

       and

          sox_ng -d new-file.wav

       Further options and effects (as described below) can be added to the commands in either form.

                                                                        *        *        *

       When playing a file with a sample rate that is not supported by the audio output device, SoX automatically invokes the rate effect to perform the nec‐
       essary sample rate conversion.  For compatibility with old hardware, the default rate quality level is set to `low'. This can be changed by explicitly
       specifying the rate effect with a different quality level, e.g.

          play_ng ... rate -m

       or by using the --play-rate-arg option (see below).

                                                                        *        *        *

       On  some systems, SoX allows the audio playback volume to be adjusted while using play_ng.  Where supported, this is achieved by tapping the `v' & `V'
       keys during playback. If there is a softvol effect in the chain, these keys will adjust that instead of the hardware mixer.

       To help with setting a suitable recording level, SoX includes a peak level meter which can be invoked (before making the actual recording) as follows:

          rec_ng -n

       The recording level should be adjusted (using the system-provided mixer program, not SoX) so that the meter is, at most, occasionally full  scale  and
       never `in the red' (an exclamation mark is shown).  See the -S (--show-progress) option below.

   Accuracy
       Many file formats that compress audio discard some of the audio signal information. Converting to such a format and back again will not produce an ex‐
       act  copy  of  the original audio.  This is the case for many formats used in telephony (e.g. A-law, GSM) where low signal bandwidth is more important
       than high audio fidelity and for formats used in portable music players (e.g. MP3, Ogg Vorbis) where adequate fidelity can be retained even  with  the
       large compression ratios that are needed to make portable players practical.

       Formats that discard audio signal information are called `lossy'.  Formats that do not are called `lossless'.  The term `quality' is used as a measure
       of how closely the original audio signal is reproduced when using a lossy format.

       Audio  file  conversion  with  SoX is lossless when it can be, i.e. when not using lossy compression, when not reducing the sampling rate or number of
       channels and when the number of bits used in the destination format is not less than in the source format.  For example, converting from an 8-bit  PCM
       format to a 16-bit PCM format is lossless but converting from an 8-bit PCM format to (8-bit) A-law isn't.

       SoX  converts  all  audio files to an internal, uncompressed 32-bit format before performing any audio processing. This means that manipulating a file
       that is stored in a lossy format can cause further losses in audio fidelity.  E.g. with

          sox_ng long.mp3 short.mp3 trim 10

       SoX first decompresses the input MP3 file, then applies the trim effect and finally creates the output MP3 file by recompressing the audio with a pos‐
       sible reduction in fidelity above that which occurred when the input file was created.  Hence, if what is ultimately desired is lossily compressed au‐
       dio, it is best to perform all audio processing using lossless file formats and then convert to the lossy format only at the  final  stage.   Applying
       multiple effects with a single SoX invocation will, in general, produce more accurate results than those produced using multiple SoX invocations.

   Dithering
       Dithering  is  a  technique used to maximize the dynamic range of audio stored at a particular bit-depth. Any distortion introduced by quantization is
       decorrelated by adding a small amount of white noise to the signal.  In most cases, SoX can determine whether the selected processing requires  dither
       and will add it during output formatting if appropriate.

       By default, SoX automatically adds TPDF dither when the output bit-depth is less than 24 and any of the following are true:

       •   bit-depth reduction has been specified explicitly using a command-line option

       •   the output file format supports only bit-depths lower than that of the input file format

       •   an effect has increased the effective bit-depth within the internal processing chain

       For  example, adjusting the volume with vol 0.25 requires two additional bits in which to losslessly store its results (since 0.25 decimal equals 0.01
       binary) so, if the input file bit-depth is 16, SoX's internal representation will use 18 bits after processing this volume change.  In order to  store
       the output at the same depth as the input, dithering is used to remove the additional bits.

       Use  the  -V  option to see what processing SoX has automatically added. The -D (--no-dither) option may be given to override automatic dithering.  To
       invoke dithering manually (e.g. to select a noise-shaping curve) use the dither effect.

   Clipping
       Clipping is distortion that occurs when an audio signal level (or `volume') exceeds the range of the chosen representation.  In most  cases,  clipping
       is undesirable and so should be corrected by adjusting the level prior to the point in the processing chain at which it occurs.

       In  SoX,  clipping  can  happen when using the vol or gain effects to increase the audio volume. Clipping can also occur with many other effects, when
       converting one format to another and even when simply playing the audio.

       Playing an audio file often involves resampling and processing by analog components and that can introduce a DC offset or amplification, all of  which
       can produce distortion if the audio signal level was initially too close to the clipping point.

       For  these  reasons,  it is usual to make sure that an audio file's signal level has some `headroom', i.e. it does not exceed a particular level below
       the maximum possible level of the given representation.  Some standards bodies recommend as much as 9dB headroom, but in most cases, 3dB (≈  70%  lin‐
       ear)  is  enough.  Note that this wisdom seems to have been lost in modern music production; in fact, many CDs, MP3s, etc.  are now mastered at levels
       above 0dBFS and the audio is clipped as delivered.

       SoX's stat and stats effects can assist in determining the signal level of an audio file. The gain or vol effect can be used to prevent clipping, e.g.

          sox_ng dull.wav bright.wav gain -6 treble +6

       guarantees that the treble boost will not clip.

       If clipping occurs at any point during processing, SoX displays a warning message to that effect.

       See the global -G (--guard) option and the gain and norm effects.

   Input File Combining
       SoX's input combiner can be configured with the --combine global option to combine multiple files using one of the following methods: concatenate, se‐
       quence, mix, mix-power, merge and multiply, with shorthands -m for --combine mix, -M for merge and -T for multiply.

       The default is sequence for play_ng, and concatenate for sox_ng.

       For methods other than sequence, multiple input files must have the same sampling rate. If necessary, separate SoX invocations can  be  used  to  make
       sampling rate adjustments prior to combining them.  and, with concatenate, the input files must also have the same number of channels.

       The  sequence combining method is similar to concatenate in that the audio from each input file is sent serially to the output file but here, the out‐
       put file may be closed and reopened at the transition between input files.  This may be just what is needed when sending different types of  audio  to
       an output device but is not generally useful when the output is a normal file.

       With  the  mix or mix-power combining methods, the number of channels in each input file need not be the same but SoX issues a warning if they are not
       and some channels in the output file will not contain audio from every input file.  A mixed audio file cannot be  unmixed  without  reference  to  the
       original input files.

       If  the  merge combining method is selected the number of channels in each input file need not be the same and a merged audio file comprises all chan‐
       nels from all the input files and unmerging is possible using multiple invocations of SoX with the remix effect.  For example, two mono files could be
       merged to form one stereo file and the first and second mono files would become the left and right channels of the stereo file.

       The multiply combining method multiplies the sample values of corresponding channels treated as numbers in the interval -1 to +1.  If  the  number  of
       channels in the input files is not the same, the missing channels will contain silence.

       When combining input files, SoX applies any specified effects (including, for example, the vol volume adjustment effect) after the audio has been com‐
       bined.  However,  it  is often useful to be able to set the volume of the inputs individually (i.e. `balance' them) before combining takes place.  For
       all combining methods, input file volume adjustments can be made manually using the -v option, which can be given for one or more input files.  If  it
       is  given  for  only some of the input files, the others receive no volume adjustment.  In some circumstances, automatic volume adjustments may be ap‐
       plied.  The global -V option can be used to show the input file volume adjustments that have been selected manually or automatically.

       Some special considerations need to made when mixing input files:

       Unlike the other methods, mix combining can cause clipping in the combiner if no balancing is performed.  In this case, if manual  volume  adjustments
       are  not given, SoX tries to ensure that clipping does not occur by automatically adjusting the volume (amplitude) of each input signal by a factor of
       ¹/n, where n is the number of input files.  If this results in audio that is too quiet or otherwise unbalanced, the input file volumes can be set man‐
       ually with -v. Using the norm effect on the mix is another alternative.

       If mixed audio seems loud enough at some points but too quiet in others, dynamic range compression can be applied to correct this -  see  the  compand
       effect.

       With the mix-power combine method, the mixed volume is approximately equal to that of one of the input signals.  This is achieved by balancing using a
       factor  of  ¹/√n instead of ¹/n.  Note that this balancing factor does not guarantee that clipping will not occur but the number of clips will usually
       be low and the resulting distortion is usually imperceptible.

   Output Files
       SoX's default behaviour is to take one or more input files and write them to a single output file.

       This behaviour can be changed by placing the newfile pseudo-effect within the effects list and SoX will enter multiple output mode.

       In multiple output mode, a new file is created when the effects prior to the newfile indicate that they are done.  The effects chain listed after new‐
       file is then started up and its output is saved to the new file.

       In multiple output mode, a unique number is appended automatically to all filenames and, if the filename has an extension, the number is inserted  be‐
       fore the extension.  This behaviour can be customized by placing %n in the filename where the number should be substituted.  An optional number can be
       placed  after the % to indicate a minimum width for the number with leading zeroes.  %n defaults to two digits or, if no %n is included, to three dig‐
       its before the filename extension.

       Multiple output mode is not very useful unless an effect that stops the effects chain is specified before newfile. If the end of the file  is  reached
       before the effects chain stops, no new file is created as it would be empty.

       The following is an example of splitting the first 60 seconds of an input file into two 30 second files and ignoring the rest.

          sox_ng song.wav ringtone%1n.wav trim 0 30 : newfile : trim 0 30

   Stopping SoX
       Usually, SoX completes its processing and exits automatically once it has read all audio data from the input files.

       It can also be terminated earlier by sending it an interrupt signal, usually by pressing the keyboard interrupt key which is normally Ctrl-C.  This is
       required  in  some circumstances such as when using SoX to make a recording.  When SoX is playing multiple files, Ctrl-C behaves slightly differently:
       pressing it once skips to the next file; pressing it twice in quick succession causes SoX to exit.

       Another way to stop processing early is to use an effect that has a time period or sample count; the trim effect is an example of this.  Once all  ef‐
       fects chains have stopped, SoX stops.

FILENAMES
       Filenames  can  be  simple file names, relative or absolute path names, URLs (for input files only) or special filenames.  URL support requires one of
       the wget, wget2 or curl programs to be installed.

       Giving SoX an input or output filename that is the same as the name of a SoX effect does not work since SoX will treat it as an effect  specification.
       You  can work around this by calling the file ./chorus on Unix or .\chorus on MS/DOS but it is not usually a problem since most audio filenames have a
       filename extension after a dot, which effect names do not.

       Using the same file name as an input and an output is unlikely to work as intended because it is likely to truncate the file before reading all of it.

   Special Filenames
       The following filenames may be used in certain circumstances in place of a normal filename:

       -      SoX can be used in simple pipeline operations by using the special filename `-' which, if used as an input filename, causes SoX to  read  audio
              data  from  the  `standard input' (stdin) and, if used as the output filename, will cause SoX to send audio data to the `standard output' (std‐
              out).  When using this option for the output file, and sometimes when using it for an input file, the file type (see -t  below)  must  also  be
              given.

       "|program [options] ..."
              An  initial  `pipe'  character specifies that the given command's standard output (stdout) should be used as an input file.  Unlike the special
              filename -, this can be used for several inputs to one SoX command.  For example, if a program genw generates a mono WAV signal on its standard
              output, the following command makes a stereo file from two generated signals:

                 sox_ng -M "|genw --imd -" "|genw --thd -" out.wav

              For headerless (raw) audio and some other formats, -t needs to be given before the input command.

       "wildcard-filename"
              Specifies that filename `globbing' (wildcard matching) should be performed by SoX instead of by the shell if the wildcard-filename contains the
              characters *, ? or characters ranges such as [A-Z].  This allows a single set of file options to be applied to a group of files.  For  example,
              if the current directory contains three files, file1.vox, file2.vox and file3.vox,

                 play_ng --rate 6k *.vox

              is expanded by the shell (in most environments) to

                 play_ng --rate 6k file1.vox file2.vox file3.vox

              which only treats the first `vox' file as having a sample rate of 6k.  With

                 play_ng --rate 6k "*.vox"

              the given sample rate option is applied to all the files.

              If you do not want SoX to glob the filenames, you can use the option --no-glob before each filename that should not be globbed, which is neces‐
              sary if you need to process files whose names contain wildcard characters.

       -p, --sox-pipe
              This  can  be used in place of an output filename to specify that its output will be used as the input to another SoX command.  For example, in
              the command:

                 play_ng "|sox_ng -n -p synth 2" "|sox_ng -n -p synth 2 tremolo 10"

              play_ng thinks it's playing two files in succession that come from pipes, but in fact they both come from other invocations of SoX,  each  with
              different effects.

              -p is in fact an alias for `-t sox -'.

       -d, --default-device
              This  can  be  used  in place of an input or output filename to specify that the default audio device (if one has been built into SoX) is to be
              used.  This is akin to invoking rec_ng or play_ng as described above.

       -n, --null
              This can be used in place of an input or output filename to specify that a `null file' is to be used.  Here, `null file' refers to  a  SoX-spe‐
              cific mechanism and is not related to any operating system mechanism with some special name.

              Using  a null file as an input is equivalent to using a normal audio file that contains an infinite amount of silence and, as such, is not gen‐
              erally useful unless used with an effect that specifies a finite time length such as trim or synth.

              Using a null file as an output amounts to discarding the audio and is mainly useful with effects that produce information about the  audio  in‐
              stead of affecting it such as noiseprof, stat and spectrogram.

              The  sampling rate associated with a null file is by default 48kHz but, as with a normal file, this can be overridden using format options such
              as -r (see below).

   Supported File and Audio Device Types
       See soxformat_ng(7) for a list and description of the supported file formats and audio device drivers.

OPTIONS
   Global Options
       These options can be specified on the command line at any point before the first effect name.

       The SOX_OPTS environment variable can be used to provide alternative default values for SoX's global options.  See ENVIRONMENT (below).

       --buffer bytes, --input-buffer bytes
              Set the size in bytes of the buffers used for processing audio (default 8192).  --buffer applies to input, effects and output processing; --in‐
              put-buffer applies only to input processing, for which it overrides --buffer if both are given.

              Large values for --buffer may cause SoX to be become slow to respond to requests to terminate or to skip to the next input file.

       --clobber
              Don't prompt before overwriting an existing file that has the same name as an output file. This is the default behaviour; to override  it,  use
              --no-clobber.

       --combine concatenate|merge|mix|mix-power|multiply|sequence
              Select the input file combining method.  See Input File Combining above for a description of them.

       -D, --no-dither
              Disable automatic dither - see Dithering above.  This may be useful to ensure that SoX produces the same output in successive runs or if a file
              has  been  converted from 16 to 24 bit with the intention of doing some processing on it, but in fact no processing is needed after all and the
              original 16 bit file has been lost, in which case no dither is needed when converting the file back to 16 bits.  See the stats effect  for  how
              to determine the actual bit-depth of the audio within a file.

       --effects-file filename
              Read a file to obtain all effects and their arguments.  The file is parsed as if the values were specified on the command line.  A new line can
              be used in place of the special : marker to separate effect chains.  For convenience, such markers at the end of the file are normally ignored;
              if  you  want to specify an empty last effects chain, use an explicit : by itself on the last line of the file.  This option causes any effects
              specified on the command line to be discarded.

       -G, --guard
              Automatically invoke the gain effect to guard against clipping. E.g.

                 sox_ng -G in.au -b 16 out.au rate 44100 dither -s

              is shorthand for

                 sox_ng in.au -b 16 out.au gain -h rate 44100 gain -rh dither -s

              See -V, --norm, and the gain effect.

       -h, --help
              Show SoX's version number and usage information.

       --help-effect name
              Show usage information for the specified effect.  The name all can be used to show it for all available effects.

       --help-format name
              Show information about the specified file format.  The name all can be used to show information for all supported formats.

       --i, --info
              If given as the first parameter to sox_ng, behave as soxi_ng.

       -m|-M  Equivalent to --combine mix and --combine merge respectively.

       --magic
              If SoX has been built with the optional `libmagic' library, this option enables its use in helping to detect audio file types.

       --multi-threaded | --single-threaded
              By default, SoX is `multi threaded' and processes audio channels for most multichannel effects in  parallel  on  hyperthreading  and  multicore
              processors.

              If the --single-threaded option is given, it processes them one at a time, which may be more efficient on systems with less RAM.

              A larger buffer size than the default may be needed to benefit more from multithreaded processing (e.g. 131072; see --buffer above).

       --no-clobber
              Prompt before overwriting an existing file with the same name as that given for the output file.

              Unintentionally overwriting a file is easier than you might think, for example, if you accidentally enter

                 sox_ng file1 file2 effect1 effect2 ...

              when what you really meant was

                 play_ng file1 file2 effect1 effect2 ...

              then, without this option, file2 will be overwritten.  Hence, using this option is recommended and can be set in the SOX_OPTS environment vari‐
              able (see ENVIRONMENT below).

       --norm[=dB-level]
              Automatically invoke the gain effect to guard against clipping and to normalize the audio. E.g.

                 sox_ng --norm in.au -b 16 out.au rate 44100 dither -s

              is shorthand for

                 sox_ng in.au -b 16 out.au gain -h rate 44100 gain -nh dither -s

              Optionally, the audio can be normalized to a given level, usually below 0 dBFS:

                 sox_ng --norm=-3 in.au out.au

              See -V, -G and the gain effect.

       --play-rate-arg arg
              Selects  a  quality  option  to be used when the rate effect is invoked automatically when playing audio.  This option is typically set via the
              SOX_OPTS environment variable (see ENVIRONMENT below) and its default value, when playing, is -l (low quality but fast).  See the  rate  effect
              for other alternatives.

       --plot gnuplot|octave|off
              If  not  set to off (the default if --plot is not given), run in a mode that can be used in conjunction with the gnuplot program or the GNU Oc‐
              tave program to assist with the selection and configuration of many of the transfer function-based effects.  For the first  given  effect  that
              supports  the  selected plotting program, SoX outputs commands to plot the effect's transfer function and stops without actually processing any
              audio.  E.g.

                 sox_ng --plot octave input-file -n highpass 1320 > highpass.plt
                 octave highpass.plt

       -q, --no-show-progress
              Run in quiet mode when SoX wouldn't otherwise do so.  This is the opposite of the -S option.  To suppress error and warning  messages,  see  -V
              below.

       -R     Run  in `repeatable' mode.  When this option is given, SoX embeds a time stamp in the output file if its format supports comments and will seed
              pseudo random number generators, as used by dither, with that number, ensuring that successive SoX invocations with the  same  inputs  and  the
              same parameters yield the same output.

       --replay-gain track|album|off
              Select  whether  or  not  to apply replay gain adjustment to input files.  The default is off for sox_ng and rec_ng, album for play_ng when (at
              least) the first two input files are tagged with the same Artist and Album names and track for play_ng otherwise.

       -S, --show-progress
              Display input file format/header information, processing progress as a percentage of the input file(s), elapsed time, remaining time (if known,
              in brackets) and the number of samples written to the output file.  Also shown is a peak level meter, and an indication of whether clipping has
              occurred.  The peak level meter shows up to two channels and is calibrated for digital audio as follows:

                                                                  dB FSD   Display       dB FSD   Display
                                                                   -25     -              -11     ====
                                                                   -23     =               -9     ====-
                                                                   -21     =-              -7     =====
                                                                   -19     ==              -5     =====-
                                                                   -17     ==-             -3     ======
                                                                   -15     ===             -1     =====!
                                                                   -13     ===-

              A three-second peak-held value of the headroom in dBs is shown to the right of the meter if the headroom is less than 6dB.

              This option is enabled by default when using SoX to play or record audio but can be disabled with -q.

       -T     Equivalent to --combine multiply

       --temp directory
              Specify that any temporary files should be created in the given directory.  This can be useful if there are permission or free  space  problems
              with the default location. In this case, using `--temp .' (to use the current directory) is often a good solution.

       --version
              Show SoX's version number and exit.

       -V[level]
              Set verbosity. This is particularly useful for seeing how any automatic effects have been invoked by SoX.

              SoX displays messages on the console (stderr) according to the following verbosity levels:

              0      No messages are shown at all; use the exit status to determine if an error has occurred.

              1      Only error messages are shown.  These are generated if SoX cannot complete the requested commands.

              2      Warning  messages  are  also shown.  These are generated if SoX can complete the requested commands but not exactly according to the re‐
                     quested command parameters, or if clipping occurs.  This is the default.

              3      Descriptions of SoX's processing phases are also shown, to see exactly how SoX is processing your audio.

              4 to 6 Messages to help with debugging SoX are also shown.

              Each occurrence of the -V option increases the verbosity level by 1. Alternatively, the verbosity level can be set to  an  absolute  number  by
              specifying it immediately after the -V, e.g.  -V0 shuts it up.

   Input File Options
       These options apply to the first input filename that follows them on the command line.

       --ignore-length
              Override the audio length given in an audio file's header. If this option is given, SoX keeps reading audio until it reaches the end of the in‐
              put file.

       -v, --volume factor
              Intended  for use when combining multiple input files, this option adjusts the volume of the file that follows it on the command line by a fac‐
              tor of factor. This allows it to be `balanced' w.r.t. the other input files.  This is a linear (amplitude) adjustment, so a number less than  1
              decreases  the  volume and a number greater than 1 increases it.  If a negative number is given then, in addition to the volume adjustment, the
              audio signal will be inverted.

              See the norm, vol and gain effects, Input File Balancing above and the Special Filenames' section on wildcard-filenames.

   Input & Output File Format Options
       These options apply to the input or output file whose name they immediately precede on the command line and are used mainly when working with  header‐
       less file formats or when specifying a format for the output file that is different from that of the input file.

       -b bits, --bits bits
              Set  the number of bits (a.k.a. bit-depth or word length) in each encoded sample.  It is not applicable to complex encodings such as MP3 or GSM
              and not necessary with encodings that have a fixed number of bits such as A-law, μ-law and ADPCM.

              For an input file, the most common use for this option is to inform SoX of the number of bits per sample in a `raw' (`headerless') audio  file.
              For example

                 sox_ng -r 16k -e signed -b 8 input.raw output.wav

              converts a particular `raw' file to a self-describing `WAV' file.

              For  an  output file, this option can be used to set the output encoding size.  By default, the output encoding size is be set to the input en‐
              coding size, provided it is supported by the output file type.  For example:

                 sox_ng input.cdda -b 24 output.wav

              converts raw CD digital audio (16-bit, signed-integer) to a 24-bit (signed-integer) `WAV' file.

       -c CHANNELS, --channels CHANNELS
              Sets the number of audio channels in the audio file. This can be any number greater than zero.

              For an input file, the most common use for this option is to inform SoX of the number of channels in a `raw' (headerless)  audio  file.   Occa‐
              sionally,  it may be useful to use this option with a headered file to override the (presumably incorrect) value in the header but this is only
              supported with certain file types.  For example:

                 sox_ng -r 48k -e float -b 32 -c 2 input.raw output.wav

              converts a `raw' file to a self-describing `WAV' file.

                 play_ng -c 1 music.wav

              interprets the file data as belonging to a single channel regardless of what is indicated in the file header and if the file does in fact  have
              two channels, it is played at half speed.

              For  an  output  file, this option provides a shorthand for specifying that the channels effect should be invoked in order to change (if neces‐
              sary) the number of channels in the audio signal to the number given.  For example, the following two commands are equivalent:

                 sox_ng input.wav -c 1 output.wav bass -b 24
                 sox_ng input.wav      output.wav bass -b 24 channels 1

              though the second form is more flexible as it allows effects to be ordered arbitrarily.

       -e ENCODING, --encoding ENCODING
              Set the audio encoding type, sometimes needed with file types that support more than one encoding scheme such as raw, WAV or AU  but  not  with
              MP3 or FLAC.  The available encoding types are as follows:

              signed-integer
                     PCM  data  stored  as  signed (`two's complement') integers.  Commonly used with a 16 or 24 -bit encoding size.  A value of 0 represents
                     minimum signal power.

              unsigned-integer
                     PCM data stored as unsigned integers.  Commonly used with an 8-bit encoding size.  A value of 0 represents maximum signal power.

              floating-point
                     PCM data stored as IEEE 753 single precision (32-bit) or double precision (64-bit) floating point (`real') numbers.  A value of 0 repre‐
                     sents minimum signal power.

              a-law  International telephony standard for logarithmic encoding to 8 bits per sample.  It has a precision equivalent to roughly 13-bit PCM and
                     is sometimes encoded with reversed bit-ordering (see the -X option).

              u-law/mu-law
                     The North American telephony standard for logarithmic encoding to 8 bits per sample, a.k.a. μ-law has a precision equivalent to  roughly
                     14-bit PCM and is sometimes encoded with reversed bit-ordering (see the -X option).

              oki-adpcm
                     OKI (a.k.a. VOX, Dialogic, or Intel) 4-bit ADPCM has a precision equivalent to roughly 12-bit PCM.  ADPCM is a form of audio compression
                     that makes a good compromise between audio quality and encoding/decoding speed.

              ima-adpcm
                     IMA (a.k.a. DVI) 4-bit ADPCM has a precision equivalent to roughly 13-bit PCM.

              ms-adpcm
                     Microsoft 4-bit ADPCM has a precision equivalent to roughly 14-bit PCM.

              gsm-full-rate
                     GSM  is currently used for the majority of the world's digital wireless telephone calls.  It utilizes several audio formats with differ‐
                     ent bit rates and associated speech quality.  SoX has support for GSM's original 13kbps `Full Rate' audio format.

              Encoding names can be abbreviated where this would not be ambiguous; e.g. unsigned-integer can be given as un, but not  u  (ambiguous  with  u-
              law).

              For  an input file, the most common use for this option is to inform SoX of the encoding of a `raw' (`headerless') audio file (see the examples
              in -b and -c above).

              For an output file, this option can be used (perhaps with -b) to set the output encoding. For example:

                 sox_ng input.cdda -e float output1.wav
                 sox_ng input.cdda -b 64 -e float output2.wav

              converts a raw CD digital audio (16-bit signed integer) to floating point `WAV' files of single and double precision respectively.

              If this option is not given, the output encoding will be the same as the input encoding, provided it is supported by the output file type.

       --no-glob
              Specifies that filename `globbing' (wildcard matching) should not be performed by SoX on the following filename.  For example, if  the  current
              directory contains the two files `five-seconds.wav' and `five*.wav', then

                 play_ng --no-glob "five*.wav"

              can be used to play just the single file `five*.wav'.

       -r, --rate rate[k]
              Gives the sample rate in Hz (or kHz if followed by k) of the file.

              For  an input file, the most common use for this option is to inform SoX of the sample rate of a `raw' (`headerless') audio file (see the exam‐
              ples in -b and -c above).  Occasionally it may be useful to use this option with a `headered' file to override the value in the header,  though
              this  is only supported with certain file types.  For example, if audio was recorded with a sample rate of 48k from a source that played back a
              little too slowly, say 1.5%,

                 sox_ng -r 48720 input.wav output.wav

              would correct the speed by changing only the file header (but see the speed effect for the more usual solution to this problem).

              For an output file, this option provides a shorthand for specifying that the rate effect should be invoked in order to  change  (if  necessary)
              the sample rate of the audio signal to the given value.  For example, the following two commands are equivalent:

                 sox_ng input.wav -r 48k output.wav bass -b 24
                 sox_ng input.wav        output.wav bass -b 24 rate 48k

              though the second form is more flexible as it allows rate options to be given and allows the effects to be ordered arbitrarily.

       -t, --type FILE-TYPE
              Give  the  type of an audio file.  For both input and output files, this option is commonly used to inform SoX of the type a `headerless' audio
              file where the actual/desired type cannot be determined from the filename extension.  For example:

                 another-command | sox_ng -t mp3 - output.wav
                 sox_ng input.wav -t raw output.bin

              It can also be used to override the type implied by an input filename extension but, if overriding with a type that has a header, SoX exit with
              an error message if such a header is not actually present.

              There are also pseudo filetypes that tell SoX to use a specified format module that handles more than one type of audio file such as -t sndfile
              and -t ffmpeg or when a type of file can be handled by several different format modules, such as WAV files containing MP3-encoded data.

              Furthermore, the file type can be used to select a particular audio device driver for recording and playing.

              See soxformat_ng(7) for a list of supported file types.

       -L, --endian little
       -B, --endian big
       -x, --endian swap
              These options specify whether the byte order of the audio data is, respectively, `little endian', `big endian' or the opposite to that  of  the
              system  on  which SoX is being used.  Endianness applies only to data encoded as floating point or as signed or unsigned integers of 16 or more
              bits.  It is often necessary to specify one of these options for headerless files  and  sometimes  necessary  for  (otherwise)  self-describing
              files.   A given endian-setting option may be ignored for an input file whose header contains a specific endianness identifier or for an output
              file that is actually an audio device.

              N.B.  Unlike other format characteristics, the endianness (byte, nibble, & bit ordering) of the input file is not automatically  used  for  the
              output file. For example, when the following is run on a little-endian system:

                 sox_ng -B audio.s16 trimmed.s16 trim 2

              trimmed.s16 will be created as little-endian;

                 sox_ng -B audio.s16 -B trimmed.s16 trim 2

              must be used to preserve big-endianness in the output file.

              The -V option can be used to check the selected orderings.

       -N, --reverse-nibbles
              Specifies  that the nibble ordering of the samples (i.e. the 2 halves of a byte) should be reversed, which is sometimes useful with ADPCM-based
              formats.

              See the N.B. in the section on -x above.

       -X, --reverse-bits
              Specifies that the bit ordering of the samples should be reversed, which is sometimes useful with a few (mostly headerless) formats.

              See the N.B. in the section on -x above.

   Output File Format Options
       These options only apply to output files and may only precede an output filename on the command line.

       --add-comment TEXT
              Append a comment to the output file header (where applicable).

       --comment TEXT
              Specify the comment text to store in the output file header (where applicable).

              SoX provides a default comment `Processed by SoX' if this option (or --comment-file) is not given. To specify that no comment should be  stored
              in the output file, use --comment "" .

       --comment-file FILENAME
              Specify a file containing the comment text to store in the output file header (where applicable).

       -C, --compression FACTOR
              Set the compression factor for variably-compressed output file formats.  If this option is not given then a default compression factor applies.
              The  compression factor is interpreted differently for different compressed file formats; see the description of the file formats that use this
              option in soxformat_ng(7) for more information.

EFFECTS
       In addition to converting, playing and recording audio files, SoX can be used to invoke a number of audio effects.  Multiple effects may be applied by
       specifying them one after the other at the end of the SoX command line, forming an `effects chain'.  Note that applying multiple effects in real  time
       (i.e. when playing audio) may require a high performance computer.

       Some  of  the  SoX effects are primarily intended to be applied to a single instrument or `voice'. To facilitate this, the remix effect and the global
       SoX option -M can be used to isolate then recombine tracks from a multitrack recording.

   Multiple Effects Chains
       A single effects chain is made up of one or more effects.  Audio from the input runs through the chain until either the  end  of  the  input  file  is
       reached or an effect terminates the chain.

       SoX supports running multiple effects chains over the input audio.  In this case, when one chain indicates that it is done processing audio, the audio
       data is sent through the next effects chain.  This continues until either no more effects chains exist or the input has reached the end of the file.

       Effects chains can be separated by placing a : (colon) after an effect; any following effects are a part of a new effects chain.

       It is important to place the effect that stops the chain as the first effect in the chain because any samples that are buffered by effects to the left
       of  the terminating effect will be discarded.  The amount of samples discarded is related to the --buffer option and it should be kept small, relative
       to the sample rate, if the terminating effect cannot be first.  Further information on stopping effects can be found in the Stopping SoX section.

       There are a few pseudo-effects that can help when using multiple effects chains.  These include newfile, which starts writing to a new output file be‐
       fore moving to the next effects chain, and restart, which moves back to the first effects chain.  Pseudo-effects must be specified as the first effect
       in a chain and as the only effect in a chain (i.e. they must have a : before and after them).

       Here is an example of multiple effects chains.  It splits the input file into multiple files, each of 30 seconds in length and  each  output  filename
       will have unique number in its name, as documented in the Output Files section.

          sox_ng in.au out.au trim 0 30 : newfile : restart

   Common Notation And Parameters
       In  the  descriptions  that follow, [square brackets] are used to denote parameters that are optional, {braces} to denote those that are both optional
       and repeatable, <angle brackets> to denote those that are repeatable but not optional and pipe characters `|' separate options from  which  to  choose
       one of several alternatives.  Where applicable, default values for optional parameters are shown (in parentheses).

       The following parameters are used with, and have the same meaning for, several effects:

       frequency
              A  frequency  in Hz or, if followed by k, in kHz or, if preceded by %, in semitones relative to A (440Hz); alternatively, scientific note names
              (e.g. E2) may be used.

       gain   A power gain in dB.  Zero gives no gain, less than zero gives an attenuation and greater than zero amplifies.

       duration
              See Time Specifications below.

       position
              A position within the audio stream; the syntax is [=|-|+]timespec, where timespec is a time specification (see below). The optional first char‐
              acter indicates whether the timespec is to be interpreted relative to the start (=) or end (-) of the audio or relative to the  previous  posi‐
              tion  (+)  if the effect accepts multiple positional arguments.  The audio length must be known for end-relative locations to work, though some
              effects do accept -0 for the end of the audio even if the length is unknown.  Which of =, - and + is the default depends on the effect  and  is
              shown in its syntax as, e.g., position(+).

              Examples:  `=2:00' is two minutes into the audio stream, `-100s' is one hundred samples before the end of the audio, `+0:12+10s' is twelve sec‐
              onds and ten samples after the previous position and `-0.5+1s' is one sample less than half a second before the end of the audio.

       width[h|k|o|q]
              Used to specify the bandwidth of a filter.  A number of different methods to specify the width are available (though not all for every effect).
              One of the characters shown may be appended to select the desired method as follows:

                                                                  Method    Notes
                                                             h      Hz
                                                             k     kHz
                                                             b      Hz      Old non-frequency-warped response
                                                             o   octaves
                                                             q   Q-factor   See [2]
                                                             s    slope

              For each effect that uses this parameter, the default method (if no character is appended) is the one that is listed first in the first line of
              the effect's description.

   Time Specifications
       A timespec can be given in one the following two forms:

       [[hours:]minutes:]seconds[.frac][t]
              For example, a time specification of `1:30.5' corresponds to one minute, thirty and ½ seconds.  The component values do not have to be  normal‐
              ized; e.g.  `1:23:45', `83:45', `79:0285', `1:0:1425', `1::1425' and `5025' are all equivalent.

       sampless
              Specifies the number of samples directly, as in `8000s'.  For large sample counts, e notation is supported: `1.7e6s' is the same as `1700000s'.

       Time  specifications  can  also  be chained with + or - into a new time specification where the right part is added to or subtracted from the total so
       far.  For example, `3:00-200s' means two hundred samples less than three minutes.

       If a time specification is a plain whole number with no t or s suffix, whether it is taken as a number of seconds or a number of  samples  depends  on
       the effect in question. At present, it always means seconds except for the duration parameters of the silence effect.

   Supported Effects
       To  see  whether  SoX has support for an optional effect, enter sox_ng -h and look for its name in the EFFECTS list; a categorized list of the effects
       can be found in the accompanying README file.

       allpass [-1|-2] frequency [width[h|k|o|q]]
              Apply a two-pole all-pass filter with central frequency frequency and filter width width.  An all-pass filter changes the audio's frequency  to
              phase relationship without changing its frequency to amplitude relationship.  The filter is described in detail in [1].

              -1 or -2 use an experimental 1-pole or 2-pole filter, in which case width does not apply.

              This effect supports the --plot global option.

       band [-n] frequency [width[h|k|o|q]]
              Apply  a  band-pass  filter.  The frequency response drops logarithmically around the center frequency.  The width parameter gives the slope of
              the drop: the frequencies at frequency + width and frequency - width will have half their original amplitudes.  Its default value  is  half  of
              the center frequency.

              band  defaults  to  a  mode oriented to pitched audio, i.e. voice, singing or instrumental music.  The -n (for noise) option uses the alternate
              mode for unpitched audio (e.g. percussion), though -n introduces a power gain of about 11dB in the filter, so beware of output clipping.   band
              introduces noise in the shape of the filter, peaking at the center frequency and settling around it.

              This effect supports the --plot global option.

              See sinc for a band-pass filter with steeper shoulders.

       bandpass|bandreject [-c] frequency width[h|k|o|q|b]
              Apply  a two-pole Butterworth band-pass or band-reject filter with central frequency frequency, and (3dB-point) bandwidth width.  The -c option
              applies only to bandpass and selects a constant skirt gain (peak gain = Q) instead of the default, a constant 0dB peak gain.  The filters  roll
              off at 6dB per octave (20dB per decade) and are described in detail in [1].

              These effects support the --plot global option.

              See sinc for a band-pass filter with steeper shoulders.

       bass|treble gain [frequency [width[s|h|k|o|q]]]
              Boost  or cut the bass (lower) or treble (upper) frequencies of the audio using a two-pole shelving filter with a response similar to that of a
              standard hifi's tone controls.  This is also known as shelving equalization.

              gain gives the gain at 0Hz for bass or, for treble, whichever is the lower of ∼22kHz and the Nyquist frequency.  Its useful range is about  -20
              (for a large cut) to +20 (for a large boost).  Beware of Clipping when using a positive gain.

              The filter can be fine-tuned using the following optional parameters:

              frequency  sets  the  filter's  central frequency and so can be used to extend or reduce the frequency range to be boosted or cut.  The default
              values are 100Hz for bass and 3kHz for treble.

              width determines how steep the filter's shelf transition is.  In addition to the common width specification methods, `slope' (the default)  may
              be used.  Its useful range is about 0.3 for a gentle slope to 1 (the maximum) for a steep slope; and its default value is 0.5.

              The filters are described in detail in [1].

              These effects support the --plot global option.

              See equalizer for a peaking equalization effect.

       bend [-f frame-rate(25)] [-o oversampling(16)]
              {start-position(+),cents,end-position(+)}

              Changes  the pitch by specified amounts at specified times without changing the duration.  Each given triple: start-position,cents,end-position
              specifies one bend.  cents is the number of cents (100 cents = 1 semitone) by which to bend the pitch. The other values specify the  points  in
              time  at  which  to start and end bending the pitch.  During each bend, the frequency changes logarithmically, i.e. by the same number of cents
              per second.

              The pitch bending algorithm uses the Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) at a particular frame rate and oversampling rate.  The -f (from 10 to 80)
              and -o (from 4 to 32) parameters may be used to adjust these parameters and thus control the smoothness of the changes in pitch.

              For example, an initial tone is generated, then bent three times, yielding four different notes in total:

                 play_ng -n synth 2.5 sin 667 gain 1 \
                   bend .35,180,.25  .15,740,.53  0,-520,.3

              Here, the first bend runs from 0.35 to 0.6 seconds and the second one from 0.75 to 1.28 seconds.  Note that the clipping that  is  produced  in
              this example is deliberate; to remove it, use gain -5 in place of gain 1.

              See pitch.

       biquad b0 b1 b2 a0 a1 a2
              Apply a biquad Infinite Impulse Response filter with the given coefficients, where b* and a* are the numerator and denominator coefficients re‐
              spectively.

              See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_biquad_filter (where a0 = 1).

              This effect supports the --plot global option.

       channels channels
              Invoke a simple algorithm to change the number of channels in the audio signal to the given number: mixing if decreasing the number of channels
              or duplicating if increasing the number of channels.

              The  channels effect is invoked automatically if SoX's -c option specifies a number of channels that is different to that of the input file(s).
              Alternatively, if this effect is given explicitly, SoX's -c option need not be given.  For example, the following two commands are equivalent:

                 sox_ng input.wav -c 1 output.wav bass -b 24
                 sox_ng input.wav      output.wav bass -b 24 channels 1

              though the second form is more flexible as it allows the effects to be ordered arbitrarily.

              For example, when making a stereo file quadraphonic, the left and right channels are copied into the third and fourth and when mixing  a  four-
              channel file down to stereo, the left channel is the mix of the first and third and the right of the second and fourth.

              See remix for an effect that allows channels to be mixed and selected arbitrarily.

       chorus [-n|-l|-q] [-s|-t] [gain-in [gain-out {delay [decay [speed [depth [-s|-t]]]]}]]
              Add a chorus effect to the audio.  This can make a single voice sound like a chorus but can also be applied to instrumentation.

              Chorus resembles an echo effect with a short delay but, while echo's delay is constant, chorus' delay varies by a sinusoidal or triangular mod‐
              ulation.

              See [3] for further discussion of the chorus effect.

              The  -l flag makes chorus do linear interpolation between samples when the offset into the delay line is not a whole number, which is about 15%
              slower but makes it considerably less noisy and -q asks for quadratic interpolation which is about 40% slower but makes it even less noisy.  -n
              explicitly asks for no interpolation, the default, fast and fuzzy.

              -s or -t before the stages change the default wave type for all of them.

              All parameters are all optional and, if missing, assume the following values:

              Parameter   Range    Default   Description
              gain-in      -1-1      0.5     Proportion of input
                                             delivered clean to the adder
              gain-out     -1-1       1      Final volume adjustment
              delay       0-1000    40-60    Fixed delay in milliseconds
              decay        -1-1      0.5     Volume of delayed output
              speed       0-192k    0.25     Modulation frequency
              depth       0-1000      2      Extra delay in milliseconds
              wave        -s|-t      -s      Sinusoidal/triangular modulation

              Each delay ranges from the fixed delay to delay + depth.

              Gain-out is then applied to the sum of the input scaled by gain-in and the outputs from the delays scaled by their decays.

              For internal reasons regarding the speed of chorus, there is a limit of 256 chorus stages.

              A typical delay is around 40ms to 60ms; the modulation speed is best near 0.25Hz and the modulation depth around 2ms.  For  example,  a  single
              delay:

                 play_ng guitar1.wav chorus 0.7 0.9 55 0.4 0.25 2 -t

              Two delays of the original samples:

                 play_ng guitar1.wav chorus 0.6 0.9 50 0.4 0.25 2 -t \
                    60 0.32 0.4 1.3 -s

              A fuller-sounding chorus (with three additional delays):

                 play_ng guitar1.wav chorus 0.5 0.9 50 0.4 0.25 2 -t \
                    60 0.32 0.4 2.3 -t 40 0.3 0.3 1.3 -s

              flanger can do everything that chorus does except multiple stages but works in floating point internally instead of integers so is slower with‐
              out a floating point processor:

                 chorus -l gain-in gain-out delay decay speed depth -wave

              is equivalent to

                 flanger delay depth 0 100×decay÷gain-in speed wave 0 \
                    vol gain-out÷(gain-in+decay)

              For a flow diagram of how chorus works, say sox_ng --help-effect chorus.

       compand attack1,decay1{,attack,decay}
              [soft-knee-dB:]in-dB1[,out-dB1]{,in-dB,out-dB}
              [gain [initial-volume-dB [delay]]]

              Compand (compress or expand) the dynamic range of the audio.

              The attack and decay parameters (in seconds) determine the time over which the instantaneous level of the input signal is averaged to determine
              its  volume; attacks refer to increases in volume and decays refer to decreases.  For most situations, the attack time (its response to the mu‐
              sic getting louder) should be shorter than the decay time because the human ear is more sensitive to sudden loud music than sudden soft  music.
              When  more than one pair of attack/decay parameters is specified, each input channel is companded separately and the number of pairs must agree
              with the number of input channels.  Typical values are 0.3,0.8 seconds.

              The second parameter is a list of points on the compander's transfer function specified in dB relative to the maximum  possible  signal  ampli‐
              tude.  The input values must be in a strictly increasing order but the transfer function does not have to be monotonically rising.  If omitted,
              the  value of out-dB1 defaults to the same value as in-dB1; levels below in-dB1 are not companded but may have gain applied to them.  The point
              `0,0' is assumed but may be overridden by `0,out-dBn'.  If the list is preceded by a soft-knee-dB value, then the points at where adjacent line
              segments on the transfer function meet are rounded by the amount given.  Typical values for the transfer function are `6:-70,-60,-20'.

              The third (optional) parameter is an additional gain in dB to be applied at all points on the transfer function and allows easy  adjustment  of
              the overall gain.

              The  fourth  (optional)  parameter  is  an initial level to be assumed for each channel when companding starts.  This lets you supply a nominal
              level initially so that, for example, a very large gain is not applied to initial signal levels before the companding action has begun to oper‐
              ate: it is quite probable that in such an event, the output would be severely clipped while the compander gain adjusts itself.  A typical value
              (for audio which is initially quiet) is -90 dB.

              The fifth (optional) parameter is a delay in seconds.  The input signal is analyzed immediately to control the compander, but it is delayed be‐
              fore being fed to the volume adjuster.  Specifying a delay approximately equal to the attack/decay times allows the compander to operate  in  a
              predictive rather than a reactive mode.  A typical value is 0.2 seconds.

                                                                            *        *        *

              The following example might be used to make a piece of music with both quiet and loud passages suitable for listening to in a noisy environment
              such as a moving vehicle:

                 sox_ng asz.wav asz-car.wav compand 0.3,1 6:-70,-60,-20 -5 -90 0.2

              The transfer function (`6:-70,...') says that very soft sounds (below -70dB) remain unchanged.  This stops the compander from boosting the vol‐
              ume  on  `silent'  passages such as between movements.  However, sounds in the range -60dB to 0dB (maximum volume) are boosted so that the 60dB
              dynamic range of the original music is compressed 3-to-1 into a 20dB range, which is wide enough to enjoy the music but narrow  enough  to  get
              around  the  road  noise.  The `6:' selects 6dB soft-knee companding.  The -5 dB output gain is needed to avoid clipping (the number is inexact
              and was derived by experimentation).  The -90 dB for the initial volume will work fine for a clip that starts with near silence and  the  delay
              of 0.2 seconds makes the compander react more quickly to sudden volume changes.

              In the next example, compand is used as a noise-gate for when the noise is at a lower level than the signal:

                 play_ng in.au compand .1,.2 -inf,-50.1,-inf,-50,-50 0 -90 .1

              Here  is  another  noise-gate, this time for when the noise is at a higher level than the signal (making it, in some ways, similar to a squelch
              effect):

                 play_ng in.au compand .1,.1 -45.1,-45,-inf,0,-inf 45 -90 .1

              This effect supports the --plot global option (for the transfer function).

              For a flow diagram of how compand works, say sox_ng --help-effect compand.

              See mcompand for a multiple-band companding effect.

       contrast [enhancement-amount(75)]
              Comparable with compression, this effect modifies an audio signal to make it sound louder.  enhancement-amount controls the amount of  the  en‐
              hancement and is a number in the range 0-100.  Note that enhancement-amount = 0 still gives a significant contrast enhancement.

              See the compand and mcompand effects.

       dcshift shift [limiter-gain]
              Apply  a  DC  shift to the audio.  This can be useful to remove a known DC offset (caused perhaps by a hardware problem in the recording chain)
              from the audio.  The effect of a DC offset is reduced headroom and hence volume.  The stat or stats effect can be used to determine if a signal
              has a DC offset.

              The given dcshift value is a floating point number in the range of ±2 that indicates the amount to shift the audio (which is in  the  range  of
              ±1).

              An  optional  limiter-gain  can be specified as well.  It should have a value much less than 1 (e.g. 0.05 or 0.02) and is used only on peaks to
              prevent clipping.

              An alternative approach to removing a DC offset (albeit with a short delay) is to use the highpass filter effect at a frequency of say 10Hz, as
              illustrated in the following example:

                 sox_ng -n dc.wav synth 5 sin %0 50
                 sox_ng dc.wav fixed.wav highpass 10

       deemph Apply Compact Disc (IEC 60908) de-emphasis with a treble attenuation shelving filter.

              Pre-emphasis was applied in the mastering of some CDs issued in the early 1980s.  These included many classical music albums, as  well  as  now
              sought-after  issues  of albums by The Beatles, Pink Floyd and others.  Pre-emphasis should be removed at playback time by a de-emphasis filter
              in the playback device.  However, not all modern CD players have this filter and very few PC CD drives have it;  playing  pre-emphasized  audio
              without the correct de-emphasis filter results in audio that sounds harsh and is far from what its creators intended.

              With  the  deemph  effect, it is possible to apply the necessary de-emphasis to audio that has been extracted from a pre-emphasized CD and then
              either burn the de-emphasized audio to a new CD (which will then play correctly on any CD player) or simply play  the  correctly  de-emphasized
              audio files on the PC.  For example:

                 sox_ng track1.wav track1-deemph.wav deemph

              and then burn track1-deemph.wav to CD, or

                 play_ng track1-deemph.wav

              or simply

                 play_ng track1.wav deemph

              The  de-emphasis  filter is implemented as a biquad and requires the input audio sample rate to be either 44.1kHz or 48kHz.  Its maximum devia‐
              tion from the ideal response is only 0.06dB (up to 20kHz).

              This effect supports the --plot global option.

       delay {position(=)}
              Delay zero or more audio channels such that they start at the given position.

              For example, delay 1.5 +1 3000s delays the first channel by 1.5 seconds, the second channel by 2.5 seconds (one second more than  the  previous
              channel), the third channel by 3000 samples and leaves other channels undelayed.  The following (one long) command plays a chime sound:

                 play_ng -n synth -j 3 sin %3 sin %-2 sin %-5 sin %-9 \
                   sin %-14 sin %-21 fade h .01 2 1.5 delay \
                   1.3 1 .76 .54 .27 remix - fade h 0 2.7 2.5 norm -1

              and this an arpeggiated guitar chord:

                 play_ng -n synth pl G2 pl B2 pl D3 pl G3 pl D4 pl G4 \
                   delay 0 .05 .1 .15 .2 .25 remix - fade 0 4 .1 norm -1

              With no parameters it does nothing.  To delay all channels by the same amount, use the pad effect.

       dither [-S|-s|-f filter] [-a] [-p precision]
              Apply  dithering to the audio.  Dithering deliberately adds a small amount of noise to the signal in order to mask audible quantization effects
              that can occur if the output sample size is less than 24 bits.  With no options, this effect adds TPDF white noise.

              The -S option selects a slightly `sloped' TPDF, biased towards higher frequencies.  It can be used at any  sampling  rate  but,  below  ≈22kHz,
              plain TPDF is probably better and, above ≈ 37kHz, noise-shaping (if available) is probably better.

              The -s option enables noise-shaping with the shibata filter (the same as -f shibata) and with the -f option it is possible to select a particu‐
              lar  noise-shaping  filter  from  the  following  list: lipshitz, f-weighted, modified-e-weighted, improved-e-weighted, gesemann, shibata, low-
              shibata, high-shibata, shibata-(A|B)(0|1|2|3|4|5|6) and shibata-A-saturated.  The latter shibata- ones use the  new  shaper  coefficients  from
              Naoki Shibata's SSRC package, described at https://shibatch.org/ssrc

              The  filter types are distinguished by the following properties: audibility of noise, level of (inaudible, but in some circumstances problemat‐
              ic) shaped high frequency noise and processing speed and they are available for the following sample rates:

                                                         Filter                Sample rates
                                                         lipshitz              44100
                                                         e- and f-weighted     48000
                                                         gesemann              44100, 48000
                                                         shibata               8000, 11025, 16000, 22050
                                                                               32000, 37800, 44100, 48000
                                                         low-shibata           44100, 48000
                                                         high-shibata          44100
                                                         shibaba-A0 and A1     8000, 11025, 22050, 44100,
                                                                               48000, 88200, 96000, 192000
                                                         shibata-A2            44100, 48000, 88200, 96000, 192000
                                                         shibata-A3 to A6      44100, 48000
                                                         shibata-B0 to B6      44100, 48000
                                                         shibata-A-saturated   8000, 11025, 22050

              The -a option enables a mode where dithering (and noise-shaping if applicable) are automatically enabled only when needed.  The most likely use
              for this is when applying fade in or out to an already dithered file, so that the redithering applies only to the faded portions.  However, au‐
              to dithering is not foolproof, so the fades should be checked carefully for any noise modulation; if this  occurs,  then  either  redither  the
              whole file or use trim and fade and concatenate the results.

              The -p option overrides the target precision in bits and can be from 1 to 24.

              If the SoX global option -R option is not given, the pseudo-random number generator used to generate the white noise is reseeded, i.e. the gen‐
              erated noise will be different on every invocation.

              If the target precision is 1-bit, the sdm effect is applied automatically with default settings. Invoke it manually to control its options.

              See the above section on Dithering.

       dolbyb [-e|-d] [-u upsamp] [-h] [-t gain(1.0)] [-a prec(-5.0)] [-f {1|2|3|4}]
              dolbyb is a Dolby B decoder/encoder based on dolbybcsoftwaredecode which simulates the operation of a Dolby B en/decoder's electronic circuit.

              By  default,  dolbyb applies Dolby B decoding to its input signal; with -e it does Dolby B encoding. -d is also accepted but only for symmetry,
              as it is the default mode of operation.

              -u sets the upsampling ratio to use in the sliding filter.  Digital filtering only works well if the sample rate is well above the cutoff  fre‐
              quency  of  the  filter. For Dolby B's sliding filter, that frequency can be as high as 34kHz and this does not work well if the sample rate is
              only 44.1Khz. To get around this, it upsamples the audio to a higher rate when it passes through this filter.  By default, -u0, the  upsampling
              rate is set automatically so that the upper sample rate is at least 200Khz; upsampling can be switched off with -u1.

              If -h is given, upsampling is used throughout the effect from when the audio enters to when it leaves, not just in the sliding filter.  As dol‐
              byb's  up/downsampling  algorithm is simple (repeating and averaging samples) you may obtain higher quality results by upsampling with rate be‐
              fore dolbyb -u1 and downsampling it afterwards.

              -t ("threshold") adjusts the gain when the audio is fed to the Dolby gain control circuits.  When a tape deck is encoding or decoding a magnet‐
              ic tape, it knows the signal level at the tape heads but with audio files the maximum signal level may not accurately represent the tape's max‐
              imum flux density (200nWb/m for cassette tapes), giving erroneous results.  The -t option adjusts the volume level at which the sliding  filter
              reacts  to  overcome  this.   Its default value is 1.0, which assumes that the maximum amplitude of the signal represents the maximum recording
              level on tape; higher values assume that it was recorded too quietly and values below 1.0 are for when it was recorded too loud.

              To begin with, when you have little idea of what level to use, try a wide range of levels like 5, 10, 15 and 20.  If the result sounds muffled,
              the threshold is too low and if it seems to have too much treble, the threshold is too high.  Once you know the approximate level, you can  try
              more  closely-spaced  levels  and listen carefully to find the best level possible.  Logic would suggest listening to where tracks fade out, to
              see if the treble increases, but this method doesn't seem to work well and the best way seems to be to see how low the level can be set  before
              the  results  sound  dull  and muffled, then choose a level a bit higher than this; you can just about hear the difference between results that
              differ in threshold setting by about 2.

              In decode mode, the program has to use trial and error to get the right output sample values. -a sets how accurate it needs to be before it  is
              considered  OK.  A  figure of 0.0 dB would mean an accuracy of about 1 sample value. The default is -5.0 dB, which is accurate to less than one
              sample value.

              -f selects one of four types of filter to use.  The program originally simulated an analog circuit for a Dolby B noise  reducer.  However,  too
              much filtering in the side path was altering the phase of the side path audio, which caused problems when the side path was recombined with the
              main  signal. Basically signals don't add together very well if there is too much difference in the phase.  To fix this, there are now 4 filter
              modes with hopefully less of a phase change:

              -f1    is the original method.

              -f2    is a newer method that seems to work better than 1.

              -f3    is another rearrangement which in practice doesn't seem to be any better than 1.

              -f4    seems to work best, hence it is the default mode.

              For further detail on these parameters and advice on digitizing and processing Dolby B-encoded tapes, consult the wiki pages  at  https://code‐
              berg.org/sox_ng/libdolbyb

       dop    DSD over PCM. 1-bit DSD data is packed into 24-bit samples for transport over non-DSD-aware links.

       downsample [factor(2)]
              Downsample the signal by an integer factor: Only the first of each factor samples is retained, the others are discarded.

              No decimation filter is applied. If the input is not a properly band-limited baseband signal, aliasing will occur. This may be desirable, e.g.,
              for frequency translation.

              The  new  lower sample rate propagates forward in the effects chain but, unless you specify the new sample rate with -r before the output file‐
              name or with a final (no-op) rate effect, it will be resampled back up to the original sample rate.

              For a general resampling effect with antialiasing, see rate.  See upsample.

       earwax This effect takes a 44.1kHz stereo signal and adds audio cues that, when listened to on headphones, move the sound stage from inside your  head
              to outside and in front of you, as if listening to loudspeakers.

              To see how earwax works, say sox_ng --help-effect earwax.

       echo gain-in gain-out <delay decay>
              Add  echoes  to the audio.  In nature, echoes are reflected sound and digital echo effects emulate this and are often used to help fill out the
              sound of a single instrument or vocal.

              Gain-in controls how much of the input signal is delivered clean to the output, delay is the time difference in milliseconds between the origi‐
              nal signal and its reflection, decay is the loudness of the reflected signal and gain-out is a final volume adjustment of the result.

              There is no limit to the number of delay/decay pairs you can use and gains and decays can be negative or greater than 1 if you wish.

              echo extends the length of the signal by the maximum delay time.

              For example, this makes it sound as if there are twice as many instruments as are actually playing:

                 play_ng lead.aiff echo 0.8 0.88 60 0.4

              If the delay is very short, it sound like a metallic robot: music:

                 play_ng lead.aiff echo 0.8 0.88 6 0.4

              A longer delay sounds like an open air concert in the mountains:

                 play_ng lead.aiff echo 0.8 0.9 1000 0.3

              One mountain more, and:

                 play_ng lead.aiff echo 0.8 0.9 1000 0.3 1800 0.25

              For a flow diagram of how echo works, say sox_ng --help-effect echo.

       echos gain-in gain-out <delay decay>

              Echos stands for `Echo in Sequel' and adds a sequence of echoes to the audio.  That is, the first echo takes the input, the  second  the  input
              and  the  first  echo,  the  third the input and the output of the second echo and so on.  A single echos has the same effect as a single echo.
              Each delay decay pair gives the delay in milliseconds (with a minimum of one sample) and the decay of that echo.  Gain-out is  a  final  volume
              multiplier applied to the sum of the input × gain-in and the delays' outputs × their respective decays.

              echos extends the length of the signal by the maximum delay time.

              For example:

              The sample is bounced twice in symmetric echos:

                 play_ng lead.aiff echos 0.8 0.7 700 0.25 700 0.3

              The sample is bounced twice in asymmetric echos:

                 play_ng lead.aiff echos 0.8 0.7 700 0.25 900 0.3

              The sample sounds as if it were played in a garage:

                 play_ng lead.aiff echos 0.8 0.7 40 0.25 63 0.3

              For a flow diagram of how echos works, say sox_ng --help-effect echos.

       equalizer frequency width[q|o|h|k] gain
              Apply  a  two-pole  peaking equalization filter.  With this filter, the signal level at and around a selected frequency can be increased or de‐
              creased while, unlike band-pass and band-reject filters, the level at all other frequencies is unchanged.

              frequency gives the filter's central frequency in Hz, width gives its bandwidth and gain the required gain or attenuation  in  dB.   Beware  of
              Clipping when using a positive gain.

              In order to produce complex equalization curves, this effect can be given several times, each with a different central frequency.

              The filter is described in detail in [1].

              This effect supports the --plot global option.

       fade [type] fade-in-length [stop-position(=) [fade-out-length]]
              Apply a fade effect to the beginning, end, or both of the audio.

              An  optional  type  can  be specified to select the shape of the fade curve: q for quarter of a sine wave, h for half a sine wave, t for linear
              (`triangular') slope, l for logarithmic, and p for inverted parabola. The default is logarithmic.

              A fade-in starts from the first sample and ramps the signal level from 0 to full volume over the time given as fade-in-length. Specify 0 if  no
              fade-in is wanted.

              For a fade-out, the audio is truncated at stop-position and the signal level is ramped from full volume down to 0 over an interval of fade-out-
              length  before  the  stop-position.  If fade-out-length is not specified, it defaults to the same value as fade-in-length.  No fade-out is per‐
              formed if stop-position is not specified.  If the audio length can be determined from the input file header and any previous effects, then `-0'
              (or, for historical reasons, `0') may be specified for stop-position to indicate the usual case of a fade out that ends at the end of the input
              audio stream.

              See the splice effect.

       fir [coefs-file|coef <coef>]
              Use SoX's FFT convolution engine with given Finite Impulse Response filter coefficients.  If a single argument is given, it is the  name  of  a
              file  containing  the filter coefficients (white space separated; may contain `#' comments). If the filename is `-' or if no argument is given,
              the coefficients are read from the `standard input' (stdin); otherwise, coefficients may be given on the command line.  Examples:

                 sox_ng in.au out.au fir .0195 -.082 .234 .891 -.145 .043

                 sox_ng in.au out.au fir coefs.txt

              with coefs.txt containing

                 # HP filter: freq=10000
                   1.2311233052619888e-01
                  -4.4777096106211783e-01
                   5.1031563346705155e-01
                  -6.6502926320995331e-02

              This effect supports the --plot global option.

       firfit [knots-file|<freq gain>]
              Use SoX's FFT convolution engine to make a filter whose frequency response approximates a spline passing through  a  series  of  frequency/gain
              pairs.  If a single argument is given, it is the name of a file containing the knots (white space separated; may contain `#' comments).  If the
              given  filename  is  `-' or if no argument is given, the knots are read from the `standard input' (stdin); otherwise, knots may be given on the
              command line.

              Gains are in dB and the knot frequencies must be in increasing order.

              Examples:

                 sox_ng in.au out.au firfit 20 0 10000 -3

              gives a gentle low-pass filter and

                 sox_ng in.au out.au firfit knots.txt

              with knots.txt containing

                 # Approximate telephone response
                 300  -100
                 400   -10
                 480     0
                 2800    0
                 3000  -10
                 3400 -100

              approximates the response of a carbon microphone telephone.

              This effect supports the --plot global option.

       flanger [-n|-l|-q] [-s|-t] [delay(0) [depth(2) [regen(0) [width(71) [speed(0.5) [shape(sine)] [phase(25) [interp(linear)]]]]]]]
              Apply a flanging effect to the audio.  See [3] for a detailed description of flanging.

              The parameters give the base delay and the added swept delay in milliseconds, the percentage of regeneration  (the  delayed  signal  feedback),
              width  the  percentage  of  delayed  signal that is mixed with the original, speed the number of sweeps per second, the shape of the swept wave
              (sine or triangle), the percentage of phase shift of the swept wave in multichannel flanges (0 = 100 = the same phase on each channel) and  the
              type of digital delay line interpolation (none, linear or quadratic).

              sine, triangle, none, linear and quadratic can be abbreviated.

              The  input  and  the delay's output are mixed and balanced so they don't clip, so a width of 100 gives 50:50 mixing; to obtain only the delayed
              output and none of the input, specify width as inf.

              Despite containing a delay, flanger does not extend the length of the signal so, if you also want the last dregs  of  the  delayed  output  and
              feedback, pad the signal beforehand.

              sine,  triangle,  none, linear and quadratic can be abbreviated and -s, -t, -n, -l and -q are alternative ways to set the waveshape and the in‐
              terpolation type without having to specify the rest of the parameters.

              For a flow diagram of how flanger works, say sox_ng --help-effect flanger.

       gain [-e|-B|-b|-r] [-n] [-l|-h] [gain-dB(0)]
              Apply amplification or attenuation to the audio signal or, in some cases, to some of its channels.  Note that use of any of -e, -B, -b, -r  and
              -n requires temporary file space to store the audio to be processed, so may be unsuitable for use with streamed audio.

              Without  other options, gain-dB adjusts the signal power level by the given number of dB: positive amplifies (beware of clipping), negative at‐
              tenuates.  With other options, the gain-dB amplification or attenuation is applied after the processing due to those options.

              With the -e option, the levels of the audio channels of a multichannel file are equalized, i.e. gain is applied to all channels other than that
              with the highest peak level so that all channels attain the same peak level (but, without also giving -n, the audio is not normalized).

              The -B (balance) option is similar to -e, but with -B, the RMS level is used instead of the peak level.  -B might be used to correct stereo im‐
              balance caused by an imperfect record turntable cartridge.  Note that, unlike -e, -B might cause some clipping.

              -b is similar to -B but has clipping protection, i.e. if necessary to prevent clipping whilst balancing, attenuation is applied  to  all  chan‐
              nels.  In conjunction with -n, -B and -b are synonymous.

              The -r option is used in conjunction with a prior invocation of gain with the -h option - see below for details.

              The  -n  option  normalizes the audio to 0dB FSD.  It is often used in conjunction with a negative gain-dB so that the audio is normalized to a
              given level below 0dB.  For example,

                 sox_ng in.au out.au gain -n

              normalizes to 0dB, and

                 sox_ng in.au out.au gain -n -3

              normalizes to -3dB.

              The -l option invokes a simple limiter. For example,

                 sox_ng in.au out.au gain -l 6

              applies 6dB of gain but never clips.  Note that limiting more than a few dBs more than occasionally in a piece of audio is not  recommended  as
              it can cause audible distortion.  See the compand effect for a more capable limiter.

              The -h option is used to apply gain to provide headroom for subsequent processing.  For example, with

                 sox_ng in.au out.au gain -h bass +6

              6dB  of attenuation is applied prior to the bass boosting effect, ensuring that it does not clip.  Of course, with bass, it is obvious how much
              headroom is needed but, with other effects (e.g.  rate, dither), it is not always as clear.  Another advantage of using gain -h rather than  an
              explicit attenuation is that, if the headroom is not used by subsequent effects, it can be reclaimed with gain -r, for example:

                 sox_ng in.au out.au gain -h bass +6 rate 44100 gain -r

              The  above effects chain guarantees never to clip nor amplify; it attenuates if necessary to prevent clipping, but by only as much as is needed
              to do so.

              Output formatting (dithering and bit-depth reduction) also requires headroom which cannot be reclaimed, e.g.

                 sox_ng in.au out.au gain -h bass +6 rate 44100 gain -rh dither

              Here, the second gain invocation reclaims as much of the headroom as it can from the preceding effects but retains as much headroom as is need‐
              ed for subsequent processing.  The SoX global option -G can be given to automatically invoke gain -h and gain -r.

              See the norm and vol effects.

       highpass|lowpass [-1|-2] frequency [width[q|o|h|k]]
              Apply a high-pass or low-pass filter with 3dB point frequency.  The filter can be either single-pole (with -1), or double-pole (the default, or
              with -2).  width applies only to double-pole filters; the default is Q = 0.707 and gives a Butterworth response.  The filters roll off  at  6dB
              per pole per octave (20dB per pole per decade).  The double-pole filters are described in detail in [1].

              These effects support the --plot global option.

              See sinc for filters with a steeper roll-off.

       hilbert [-n taps]
              Apply an odd-tap Hilbert transform filter, phase shifting the signal by 90 degrees.

              This  is  used in many matrix coding schemes and for analytic signal generation.  The process is often written as a multiplication by i (or j),
              the imaginary unit.

              An odd-tap Hilbert transform filter has a band-pass characteristic, attenuating the lowest and highest frequencies.  Its bandwidth can be  con‐
              trolled by the number of filter taps, which can be specified with -n.  By default, the number of taps is chosen for a cutoff frequency of about
              75 Hz.

              This effect supports the --plot global option.

       ladspa [-l] [-r] module [plugin] {argument}
              Apply  a LADSPA [5] (Linux Audio Developer's Simple Plugin API) plugin.  Despite the name, LADSPA is not Linux-specific and a wide range of ef‐
              fects is available as LADSPA plugins, such as CMT [6] (the Computer Music Toolkit) and Steve Harris's plugin collection [7]. The first argument
              is the plugin module, the second the name of the plugin (a module can contain more than one plugin) and any other arguments are for the control
              ports of the plugin. Missing arguments are supplied by default values if possible.

              Normally, the number of input ports of the plugin must match the number of input channels and the number of output ports determines the  output
              channel count.  However, the -r (replicate) option allows cloning a mono plugin to handle multichannel input.

              Some plugins introduce latency which SoX may optionally compensate for.  The -l (latency compensation) option automatically compensates for la‐
              tency as reported by the plugin via an output control port named "latency".

              If it is set, the environment variable LADSPA_PATH is used as the search path for plugins.  See LADSPA_PATH in the section ENVIRONMENT.

       loudness [gain [reference]]
              Loudness control is similar to the gain effect but provides equalization for the human auditory system.  See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loud‐
              ness  for a detailed description of loudness.  The gain is adjusted by the given gain parameter (usually negative) and the signal equalized ac‐
              cording to ISO 226 w.r.t. a reference level of 65dB, though an alternative reference level may be given if the original audio has  been  equal‐
              ized at some other level.  A default gain of -10dB is used if a gain value is not given.

              See the gain effect.

       lowpass [-1|-2] frequency [width[q|o|h|k]]
              Apply a low-pass filter.  See the description of the highpass effect for details.

       mcompand "compand-args" {frequency "compand-args"}

              The quoted compand-args are as for the compand effect:
              attack1,decay1{,attack,decay}
              [soft-knee-dB:]in-dB1[,out-dB1]{,in-dB,out-dB}
              [gain [initial-volume-dB [delay]]]

              The  multi-band compander is similar to the single-band compander but the audio is first divided into bands using Linkwitz-Riley crossover fil‐
              ters and a separately specifiable compander is run on each band.  See the compand effect for the definition of its parameters.  Compand parame‐
              ters are specified between double quotes and the crossover frequency for that band is given by crossover-freq; these can be repeated to  create
              multiple bands.

              The following examples approximate Dolby A compression and decompression, as used for tape noise reduction in professional recording studios:

                 # Dolby A compressor
                 sox_ng in.au dolbyA.au mcompand \
                    ".1,.1 4:-56,-46,-36,-26,-26,-20,-17,-15,-9,-9" 80 \
                    ".1,.1 4:-56,-46,-36,-26,-26,-20,-17,-15,-9,-9" 3k \
                    ".1,.1 4:-56,-46,-36,-26,-26,-20,-17,-15,-9,-9" 9k \
                    ".1,.1 4:-56,-42,-36,-23,-26,-18,-17,-14,-9,-9"

                 # Dolby A decompressor
                 sox_ng dolbyA.au out.au mcompand \
                    ".1,.1 4:-46,-56,-26,-36,-20,-26,-15,-17,-9,-9" 80 \
                    ".1,.1 4:-46,-56,-26,-36,-20,-26,-15,-17,-9,-9" 3k \
                    ".1,.1 4:-46,-56,-26,-36,-20,-26,-15,-17,-9,-9" 9k \
                    ".1,.1 4:-42,-56,-23,-36,-18,-26,-14,-17,-9,-9"

              Real Dolby A probably compands each channel separately but that is left as an exercise to interested readers.

              See compand for a single-band companding effect.

       noiseprof [profile-file]
              Calculate a profile of the audio for use in noise reduction.  See the description of the noisered effect for details.

       noisered [profile-file [amount]]
              Reduce  noise in the audio signal by profiling and filtering.  This effect is moderately effective at removing consistent background noise such
              as hiss or hum.  To use it, first run SoX with the noiseprof effect on a section of audio that ideally would contain silence but in  fact  con‐
              tains  noise  - such sections are typically found at the beginning or the end of a recording.  noiseprof writes a noise profile to profile-file
              or to stdout if no profile-file or if `-' is given.  E.g.

                 sox_ng speech.wav -n trim 0 1.5 noiseprof speech.noise-profile

              To actually remove the noise, run SoX again, this time with the noisered effect; noisered reduces noise according to a noise profile  generated
              by noiseprof, from profile-file if it is given or from stdin if no profile-file or if `-' is given.  E.g.

                 sox_ng speech.wav cleaned.wav noisered speech.noise-profile 0.3

              How  much  noise should be removed is specified by amount-a number between 0 and 1 with a default of 0.5.  Higher numbers remove more noise but
              present a greater likelihood of removing wanted components of the audio signal.  Before replacing an original recording  with  a  noise-reduced
              version,  experiment  with  different amount values to find the optimal one for your audio; use headphones to check that you are happy with the
              results, paying particular attention to quieter sections of the audio.

              On most systems, the two stages - profiling and reduction - can be combined using a pipe, e.g.

                 sox_ng noisy.wav -n trim 0 1 noiseprof | \
                    play_ng noisy.wav noisered

       norm [dB-level(0)]
              Normalize the audio.  norm is just an alias for gain -n; see the gain effect for details.

       oops   Out Of Phase Stereo effect.  Mixes stereo to twin mono where each mono channel contains the difference between the left and right stereo  chan‐
              nels.   This  is sometimes known as the `karaoke' effect as it often has the effect of removing most or all of the vocals from a recording.  It
              is equivalent to remix 1,2i 1,2i.

       overdrive [gain(20) [color(20)]]
              Non-linear distortion.  The color parameter controls the amount of even harmonic content in the overdriven output. Both parameters range from 0
              to 100.

       pad { [%]length[@position(=)] }
              Pad the audio with silence at the beginning, at the end or at any specified points throughout the audio.  length is the amount  of  silence  to
              insert  and  position the position in the input audio stream at which to insert it.  Any number of lengths and positions may be specified, pro‐
              vided that a specified position is not less that the previous one.  Position is optional for the first and last lengths specified and if  omit‐
              ted correspond to the beginning and the end of the audio respectively.  For example, pad 1.5 1.5 adds 1.5 seconds of silence at each end of the
              audio,  whilst pad 4000s@3:00 inserts 4000 samples of silence 3 minutes into the audio.  If silence is wanted only at the end of the audio, ei‐
              ther specify the end position or specify a zero-length pad at the start.

              If a pad specification starts with with a % sign, the output is padded to a multiple of length at the specified position. For  example,  pad  0
              %10 adds silence at the end of the audio up to the next multiple of 10 seconds.

              See delay for an effect that can add silence at the beginning of the audio on a channel-by-channel basis.

       phaser [-n|l|q] [-s|t] [gain-in(.4) gain-out(.74) delay(3) regen(.4) speed(.5) [-s|-t(-s)]
              Add a phasing effect to the audio.  See [3] for a detailed description of phasing.

              delay gives the maximum delay in milliseconds from 0 to 1000, regen the amount of feedback from the delay from −1 to +1 and speed the frequency
              of delay-time modulation wave in Hz.

              The  modulation  is  either  sinusoidal (-s), which is preferable for multiple instruments, or triangular (-t) which gives single instruments a
              sharper phasing effect.  regen can be from −1 to +1 but should usually be less than 0.5 to avoid clipping and gain-out is the final volume  ad‐
              justment from −1 to +1.

              The  -l flag makes phaser do linear interpolation between samples when the offset into the delay line is not a whole number, which is about 15%
              slower but much less noisy and -q does quadratic interpolation, which is about 50% slower but even less noisy.  -n explicitly asks for  no  in‐
              terpolation, the default, fast and fuzzy.

              In  sox_ng, -s or -t can be given at the start or the end; to be compatible with earlier versions of SoX, supply all the parameters with one of
              these at the end, use gain-in and gain-out from 0 to 1, delay from 0 to 5, speed from 0.1 to 2 and don't use interpolation.

              Technically, the SoX phaser is not a phaser; it is a flanger.  A flanger does comb filtering  with  equidistant  spacing  (e.g.  100Hz,  200Hz,
              300Hz,  400Hz, ...), while a real phaser does comb filtering with factored spacing (e.g. 100Hz, 200Hz, 400Hz, 800Hz, ...) that sounds more har‐
              monic.

              For example:

                 play_ng snare.flac phaser 0.8 0.74 3 0.4 0.5 -t

              Gentler:

                 play_ng snare.flac phaser 0.9 0.85 4 0.23 1.3 -s

              A popular sound:

                 play_ng snare.flac phaser 0.89 0.85 1 0.24 2 -t

              More severe:

                 play_ng snare.flac phaser 0.6 0.66 3 0.6 2 -t

              For a flow diagram of how phaser works, say sox_ng --help-effect phaser.

       pitch [-q] shift [segment [search [overlap]]]
              Change the audio pitch but not the tempo.

              shift gives the pitch shift as positive or negative `cents' (i.e. 100ths of a semitone).

              Pitch and tempo share the same fundamental algorithm; see the tempo effect for a description of the other parameters.

              See the bend, speed and tempo effects.

       rate [-q|-l|-m|-g|-h|-e|-v|-u] [override-options] [frequency]
              Change the audio sampling rate (i.e. resample the audio) to any given frequency (even non-integer if this is supported by the output file  for‐
              mat) using a quality level defined as follows:

                    Quality    B/W    Rej dB    Typical Use
              -q     quick     n/a   ≈30@Fs/4   playback on ancient hardware
              -l      low      80%     100      playback on old hardware
              -m    medium     95%     100      audio playback
              -g    generic    95%     100      16-bit
              -h     high      95%     125      20-bit for 16-bit mastering
              -e    extreme    95%     150      24-bit
              -v   very high   95%     175      28-bit for 24-bit mastering
              -u     ultra     95%     200      32-bit

              These can also be selected with -Q n with n from 0 to 7.

              B/W  (bandwidth) is the percentage of the audio frequency band that is preserved and Rej dB is the level of noise rejection.  Increasing levels
              of resampling quality come at the expense of increasing amounts of time to process the audio.  If no quality option is given, the quality level
              used is `high' when processing audio and `low' when playing it.  See Playing & Recording Audio above.

              The `quick' algorithm uses cubic interpolation; all others use band-limited interpolation.  By default, all algorithms have a linear phase  re‐
              sponse; for `medium' and above, the phase response is configurable (see below).

              The rate effect is invoked automatically if SoX's -r option specifies a rate that is different to that of the input file(s).  Alternatively, if
              this effect is given explicitly, then SoX's -r option need not be given.  For example, the following two commands are equivalent:

                 sox_ng input.wav -r 48k output.wav bass -b 24
                 sox_ng input.wav        output.wav bass -b 24 rate 48k

              though the second command is more flexible as it allows rate options to be given, and allows the effects to be ordered arbitrarily.

              A  user  notes that resampling tracks and then concatenating them is more likely to create clicks at the joints than joining them first and re‐
              sampling the result, due to edge effects.

              Override Options

              The simple quality selection described above provides settings that satisfy the needs of the vast majority of resampling tasks.   Occasionally,
              however,  it  may  be  desirable to fine-tune the resampler's filter response; for qualities `medium' and above, this can be achieved using the
              override options in the following table:

              -M/-I/-L   Phase response=minimum/intermediate/linear
              -s         Steep filter (bandwidth=99%)
              -a         Allow aliasing/imaging above the pass band
              -b width   Any bandwidth % (74-99.7 or 85-99.7 with 0
              -p phase   Any phase response (0=minimum, 25=intermediate, 50=linear, 100=maximum)

              All resamplers use filters that can sometimes create `echo' (a.k.a.  `ringing') artefacts with transient signals such as those that occur  with
              `finger  snaps' or other highly percussive sounds.  Such artefacts are much more noticeable to the human ear if they occur before the transient
              (`pre-echo') than if they occur after it (`post-echo').  Note that the frequency of any such artefacts is related to the smaller of the  origi‐
              nal and new sampling rates but if this is at least 44.1kHz, the artefacts will lie outside the range of human hearing.

              A  phase  response setting may be used to control the distribution of any transient echo between `pre' and `post': with minimum phase, there is
              no pre-echo but the longest post-echo; with linear phase, pre- and post-echo are in equal amounts (in signal terms, but not in audibility); the
              intermediate phase setting attempts to find the best compromise by selecting a small length (and level) of  pre-echo  and  a  medium-length  of
              post-echo.

              A  minimum,  intermediate or linear phase response is selected using the -M, -I and -L options; a custom phase response can be created with the
              -p option.  Note that phase responses between `linear' and `maximum' (greater than 50) are rarely useful.

              A resampler's bandwidth setting determines how much of the frequency content of the original signal (w.r.t. the original sample rate  when  up‐
              sampling or the new sample rate when downsampling) is preserved during conversion.  The term `pass band' is used to refer to all frequencies up
              to  the bandwidth point (e.g. for a 44.1kHz sampling rate and a resampling bandwidth of 95%, the pass band represents frequencies from 0Hz (DC)
              to circa 21kHz).  Increasing the resampler's bandwidth results in a slower conversion and can increase transient echo artefacts (and vice  ver‐
              sa).

              The  -s  `steep  filter' option changes the resampling bandwidth from the default of 95% (based on the 3dB point) to 99%.  The -b option allows
              the bandwidth to be set to any value in the range 74-99.7% but bandwidth values greater than 99% are not recommended for normal use as they can
              cause excessive transient echo.

              If the -a option is given, aliasing/imaging above the pass band is allowed.  For example, with 44.1kHz sampling rate and a resampling bandwidth
              of 95%, this means that frequency content above 21kHz can be distorted. However, since this is above the pass band  (i.e.   above  the  highest
              frequency  of  interest/audibility),  this may not be a problem.  The benefits of allowing aliasing/imaging are reduced processing time and re‐
              duced (by almost half) transient echo artefacts.

              The -d option sets the bit-accuracy in the range 15 to 33, or -R sets the bit-accuracy to obtain rejection of a specified number of dB.

              Examples:

                 sox_ng input.wav -b 16 output.wav rate -s -a 44100 dither -s

              is default (high) quality resampling with overrides for a steep filter, to allow aliasing, at a 44.1kHz sample rate and noise-shaped  dithering
              to a 16-bit WAV file.

                 sox_ng input.wav -b 24 output.aiff rate -v -I -b 90 48k

              is  very high quality resampling with overrides for an intermediate phase, a bandwidth of 90%, at a 48k sampling rate and storing the output to
              a 24-bit AIFF file.

              Advanced Options

              The -i option forces the use of a particular interpolator coefficient from -1 to 2.

              The -c option tries to limit the number of coefficients to a number of kilobytes; its argument can be from 100 up.

              The -B option sets the percentage of the pass-band to preserve, from 53 to 95.

              The -A option sets the percentage of the bandwith without aliasing, from 85 to 100.

              -f sets zero pass-band roll-off instead of 0.01dB for -Q 0-2.

              -n disables internal small-integer optimizations and

              -t increases the irrational ratio accuracy.

       remix [-a|-m] [-p] <out-spec>
              out-spec  = 0 | in-spec{,in-spec}
              in-spec   = [in-chan][-[in-chan2]][vol-spec]
              vol-spec  = p|i|v[volume]

              Select and mix input audio channels into output audio channels.  Each output channel is specified in turn by a given out-spec which is  a  list
              of contributing input channels and volume specifications.

              Note  that this effect operates on the audio channels within the SoX effects processing chain; it should not be confused with the -m global op‐
              tion, where multiple files are mix-combined before entering the effects chain.

              An out-spec contains comma-separated input channel numbers and hyphen-delimited channel number ranges; alternatively, 0 may be given to  create
              a silent output channel.  For example,

                 sox_ng input.wav output.wav remix 6 7 8 0

              creates  an  output  file with four channels, where channels 1, 2, and 3 are copies of channels 6, 7, and 8 in the input file, and channel 4 is
              silent.  Whereas

                 sox_ng input.wav output.wav remix 1-3,7 3

              creates a (somewhat bizarre) stereo output file where the left channel is a mix-down of input channels 1, 2, 3 and 7 and the right channel is a
              copy of input channel 3.

              Where a range of channels is specified, the channel numbers to the left and right of the hyphen are optional and default to 1 and to the number
              of input channels respectively. Thus

                 sox_ng input.wav output.wav remix -

              performs a mix-down of all input channels to mono.

              By default, where an output channel is mixed from multiple input channels, each input channel is scaled by a factor of ¹/n.  Custom mixing vol‐
              umes can be set by following a given input channel or range of input channels with a vol-spec (volume specification) which is one of  the  let‐
              ters p, i, or v, followed by a volume number, the meaning of which depends on the given letter:

              Letter   Volume number        Notes
                p      power adjust in dB   0 = no change
                i      power adjust in dB   As for p but invert the audio
                v      voltage multiplier   1 = no change; 0.5 ≈ 6dB attenuation; 2 ≈ 6dB gain; -1 = invert

              If  an  out-spec includes at least one vol-spec then, by default, ¹/n scaling is not applied to any other channels in the same out-spec (though
              maybe in other out-specs) though the -a (automatic) option can be given to retain the automatic scaling in this case.  For example,

                 sox_ng input.wav output.wav remix 1,2 3,4v0.8

              results in channel level multipliers of 0.5,0.5 and 1,0.8, whereas

                 sox_ng input.wav output.wav remix -a 1,2 3,4v0.8

              results in channel level multipliers of 0.5,0.5 and 0.5,0.8.

              The -m (manual) option disables all automatic volume adjustments, so

                 sox_ng input.wav output.wav remix -m 1,2 3,4v0.8

              results in channel level multipliers of 1,1 and 1,0.8.

              The volume number is optional and omitting it corresponds to no volume change; however, the only case in which this is useful is in conjunction
              with i.  For example, if input.wav is stereo, then

                 sox_ng input.wav output.wav remix 1,2i

              is a mono equivalent of the oops effect.

              If the -p option is given, any automatic ¹/n scaling is replaced by ¹/√n (`power') scaling; this gives a louder mix but one that may  occasion‐
              ally clip.

              One  use of the remix effect is to split an audio file into a set of files, each containing one of the constituent channels in order to perform
              subsequent processing on individual audio channels.  When more than a few channels are involved, a script such as the following is useful:

              #! /bin/sh
              chans=`soxi_ng -c "$1"`
              while [ $chans -ge 1 ]; do
                 chans0=`printf %02i $chans`   # 2 digits hence up to 99 chans
                 out=`echo "$1"|sed "s/\(.*\)\.\(.*\)/\1-$chans0.\2/"`
                 sox_ng "$1" "$out" remix $chans
                 chans=`expr $chans - 1`
              done

              If a file input.wav containing six audio channels were given, the script would produce six output files: input-01.wav, input-02.wav,  ...,  in‐
              put-06.wav.

              See the swap effect.

       repeat [count(1)|-]
              Repeat  the  entire audio count times, or once if count is not given.  The special value - requests infinite repetition.  It requires temporary
              file space to store the audio to be repeated.  Note that repeating once yields two copies: the original audio and the repeated audio.

       reverb [-w] [reverberance(50%) [HF-damping(50%) [room-scale(100%)
              [stereo-depth(100%) [pre-delay(0ms) [wet-gain(0dB)]]]]]]

              Add reverberation to the audio using the `freeverb' algorithm.  A reverberation effect is sometimes desirable for concert halls  that  are  too
              small  or  contain  so  many people that the hall's natural reverberance is diminished.  Applying a small amount of stereo reverb to a dry mono
              signal usually makes it sound more natural.  See [3] for a detailed description of reverberation.

              This effect increases the volume of the audio and continues to reverberate after the input finishes so, to prevent clipping and keep the  audi‐
              ble part of the final reverberation, a typical invocation might be:

                 play_ng dry.au gain -3 pad 0 1 reverb

              The -w option can be given to select only the `wet' signal, thus allowing it to be processed further, independently of the `dry' signal.  E.g.

                 play_ng -m in.au "|sox_ng in.au -p reverse reverb -w reverse"

              for a reverse reverb effect.

       reverse
              Reverse the audio completely.  Requires temporary file space to store the audio to be reversed.

       riaa   Apply RIAA vinyl playback equalization.  The sampling rate must be 44.1, 48, 88.2, 96 or 192kHz.

              This effect supports the --plot global option.

       saturation [type [blend [offset [drive|color|threshold]]]]
              Add saturation, which can produce effects ranging from subtle warmth to crunchy fuzz. The type parameter selects the saturation type: tanh (the
              default), sqrt or diode.

              For  all  types,  the blend parameter (default 1) controls the mixture of wet and dry signals in the output, with 1 being fully wet. The offset
              parameter (default 0) adds a DC offset to the input to produce asymmetric distortion. The offset is removed from the output, so that a zero in‐
              put level produces a zero output level, but when the input is non-zero the output waveform is likely to be asymmetric.

              The tanh saturation type uses the hyperbolic tangent function to apply soft clipping. The drive parameter (default 1) controls the  input  gain
              and thus the amount of distortion.

              The sqrt saturation type uses a mixture of two functions: x*sqrt(|x|) and sgn(x)*sqrt(|x|), which give different tonal qualities to the output.
              The color parameter (default 0.5) controls the mixture of these functions, with 0 being purely x*sqrt(|x|) and 1 being purely sgn(x)*sqrt(|x|).

              The  diode  saturation type models the effect of using a pair of diodes to clip the signal when it exceeds a threshold (default 0.5). The blend
              parameter, by mixing the wet and dry signals, effectively controls the amount of attenuation that occurs above the threshold, from no  attenua‐
              tion when blend is 0 to complete attenuation (hard clipping) when blend is 1.

              See  the  overdrive  effect for another kind of non-linear distortion.  When the offset parameter is used to produce asymmetric distortion, the
              highpass effect can be used to rebalance the waveform's positive and negative amplitude.

       sdm [-f filter] [-t order] [-n num] [-l latency]
              Apply a 1-bit sigma-delta modulator producing DSD output.  The input should be previously upsampled, e.g. with the rate effect, to a high rate,
              2.8224MHz for DSD64.  The -f option selects the noise-shaping filter from the following list where the number indicates the order of  the  fil‐
              ter:

                                                                              clans-4   sdm-4
                                                                              clans-5   sdm-5
                                                                              clans-6   sdm-6
                                                                              clans-7   sdm-7
                                                                              clans-8   sdm-8

              The noise filter may be combined with a partial trellis/viterbi search by supplying the following options:

              -t order
                     Trellis order, max 32.

              -n num Number of paths to consider, max 32.

              -l latency
                     Output latency, max 2048.

              The result of using these parameters is hard to predict and can include high noise levels or instability.  Caution is advised.

       silence [-l] above-periods [duration threshold[d|%]]
              [below-periods duration threshold[d|%]]

              Removes silence from the beginning, middle or end of the audio, where `silence' is determined by a specified threshold.

              The  above-periods  value  is used to indicate whether audio should be trimmed at the beginning of the audio. A value of zero indicates that no
              silence should be trimmed from the beginning in which case duration and threshold are omitted.  When a non-zero above-periods is specified, you
              must also specify a duration and threshold and it trims audio until it finds non-silence.  It will normally be 1 when trimming silence from the
              beginning of the audio, but it can be increased to higher values to trim all audio up to the Nth non-silence period.  For example, if you  have
              an  audio file with two songs that each contains 2 seconds of silence before the song, you could specify an above-period of 2 to strip out both
              silences and the first song.

              duration indicates the amount of time for which non-silence must be detected before it stops trimming the silence before it.  By increasing du‐
              ration, short bursts of quiet noise can be treated as silence and trimmed off.  duration has the peculiarity that a bare number is  interpreted
              as  a sample count, not as a number of seconds.  To specify seconds, either use the t suffix (as in 2t), a decimal point (as in 2.0) or specify
              minutes too (as in 0:02).

              threshold indicates the maximum sample value in any channel is considered silence. For digital audio, a value of 0 may be fine  but  for  audio
              recorded from analog you may wish to increase the value to include background noise.  threshold numbers may be suffixed with d to indicate that
              the value is in decibels or % to indicate a percentage of the maximum possible sample value.  By default, it is in percent.

              To  trim  silence  from the end of the audio, specify a below-periods count, which means to remove all audio after the last onset of silence is
              detected.  Normally, this will be 1 but it can be increased to leave shorter periods of silence and the audio that follows  them  intact.   For
              example,  if you have a track with 1 second of silence in the middle and 1 second at the end, you could set below-period to 2 to leave the mid‐
              dle silence and what follows it and remove from the final silence on.

              When below-periods is given, its duration specifies the length of silence that must exist before audio is not copied any more.  By specifying a
              higher duration, shorter silences that are wanted can be left in the audio.  For example, if you have a song with 1 second of  silence  in  the
              middle  and 2 seconds of silence at the end, a duration of 2 could be used to skip over the middle silence and trim the end instead of starting
              trimming from half way through.

              Unfortunately, the length of the silence at the end has to be longer than any preceding silence for this to work so you must know the length of
              the silence at the end.

              A more reliable way to trim silence from the end is to use the silence effect in combination with the reverse effect.  By first  reversing  the
              audio, you can use the above-periods to trim from what looks like the front of the file, then reverse it again to get back to normal.

              To  remove  silence from the middle of a file, give a negative below-periods.  This value is then treated as positive value and is also used to
              indicate that the effect should restart processing as specified by the above-periods, making it suitable for removing periods of silence in the
              middle of the audio.

              The -l option indicates that below-periods' duration of `silent' audio should be left intact at the beginning of each period  of  silence,  for
              example, if you want to remove long pauses between words but do not want to remove the pauses completely.

              The  following  example  shows  how  this  effect can be used to make a recording that does not contain the silence that usually occurs between
              pressing the record button and the start of the performance:

                 rec_ng parameters filename other-effects silence 1 5 2%

              This example should remove the start of the recording until there's a period of non-silence longer than 0.2s and louder than 0.1%,  then  start
              searching for a silence that's longer than 1s and quieter than 3% and remove it if found, leaving the first 1s of it in place, then start copy‐
              ing again until a silence is found that's longer than 1s and quieter than 3%, trim that to 1s and so on.

                 sox_ng in.au out.au silence -l 1 0.2 0.1% -1 1.0 3%

       sinc [-a att|-b beta] [-p phase|-M|-I|-L] [-t tbw|-n taps]
              [freqHP][-freqLP [-t tbw|-n taps]] [-r]] [-d]]

              Apply a kaiser-windowed low-pass, high-pass, band-pass or band-reject filter to the signal.  The freqHP and freqLP parameters give the frequen‐
              cies  of  the  6dB points of a high-pass and low-pass filter that may be invoked individually or together.  If both are given, freqHP less than
              freqLP creates a band-pass filter and freqHP greater than freqLP creates a band-reject filter.  For example, the invocations

                 sinc 3k
                 sinc -4k
                 sinc 3k-4k
                 sinc 4k-3k

              create a high-pass, low-pass, band-pass and band-reject filter respectively.

              The default stop band attenuation of 120dB can be overridden with -a; alternatively, the kaiser window's `beta' parameter can be given directly
              with -b.

              The default transition bandwidth of 5% of the total band can be overridden with -t (and tbw in Hertz); alternatively, the number of filter taps
              can be given directly with -n and is limited to the range of 11-32767.

              If both freqHP and freqLP are given, a -t or -n option given to the left of the frequencies applies to both frequencies; one of  these  options
              given to the right of the frequencies applies only to freqLP.

              The -p, -M, -I and -L options control the filter's phase response; see the rate effect for details.

              The -r option controls whether the filter should round the number of taps to the closest integer instead of truncating it.

              The -d option specifies that, if a low-pass filter is being created and the cutoff frequency is at or above the Nyquist frequency, the sinc ef‐
              fect should be deleted from the effects chain instead of failing.

              This effect supports the --plot global option.

       softvol [volume(1.0) [double-time(0) [headroom(0)]]]
              The  soft  volume  effect  applies a simple multiplier to the audio ensuring that it does not clip. When a sample would have clipped the volume
              multiplier is automatically reduced to compensate.

              It is a simple compander with the advantages of running fast, having no pre- or post-echo and reacting on the crests of the wave, so  its  vol‐
              ume-reduction glitches don't add audible noise.

              volume sets the initial volume multiplier; the default of 1.0 means no change.

              double-time says that the volume should slowly increase at a rate that makes it double every double-time seconds.  A good value for usual music
              is 10 and the default value of 0 says that the volume should not increase automatically.

              headroom  is  in dB and limits the loudest amplitude to less than the 32-bit maximum.  This may be necessary when the final bit-depth reduction
              and/or dithering make it clip.  A value of 0.1 is sufficient to protect down to a bit-depth of 8 with dithering.

              When playing sound in interactive mode, the `v' and `V' keys reduce and increase the volume if there is a softvol  in  the  effects  chain.  If
              there are more than one, which one it adjusts is probably random.

       spectrogram [options]
              Create  a  spectrogram  of  the  audio. The audio is passed unmodified through the SoX processing chain.  This effect is optional - type sox_ng
              --help and check the list of supported effects to see if it has been included.

              The spectrogram is rendered in a Portable Network Graphic (PNG) file and shows time in the X axis, frequency in the Y  axis  and  audio  signal
              magnitude  in  the Z axis, represented by the color (or optionally the intensity) of the pixels in the X-Y plane.  If the audio signal contains
              multiple channels, these are shown from top to bottom starting from channel 1, which is the left channel for stereo audio.

              For example, if `my.wav' is a stereo file, then

                 sox_ng my.wav -n spectrogram

              creates a spectrogram of the entire file in the file `spectrogram.png'.  More often though, analysis of a smaller portion of the audio  is  re‐
              quired; e.g. with

                 sox_ng my.wav -n remix 2 trim 20 30 spectrogram

              the  spectrogram shows information only from the second (right) channel of thirty seconds of audio starting from twenty seconds in.  To analyze
              a small portion of the frequency domain, the rate effect may be used, e.g.

                 sox_ng my.wav -n rate 6k spectrogram

              allows detailed analysis of frequencies up to 3kHz (half the sampling rate) i.e. where the human auditory system is most sensitive.   See  also
              the -R option below. With

                 sox_ng my.wav -n trim 0 10 spectrogram -x 600 -y 200 -z 100

              the  given options control the size of the spectrogram's X, Y & Z axes (in this case, the spectrogram area of the produced image will be 600 by
              200 pixels in size and the Z axis range will be 100 dB).  Note that the produced image includes axes, legends etc. and will be larger than  the
              specified  spectrogram  size unless the -r option is given: if each spectrogram is x × y and there are c channels, the image will be x + 144 by
              (y × c) + 78, plus c − 1 if -a was not given, and 20 pixels higher than this if you gave -t Title.  A raw spectrogram will be x by y × c.

              In this example

                 sox_ng -n -n synth 6 tri 10k:14k spectrogram -z 100 -w kaiser

              an analysis window with high dynamic range is selected to best display the spectrogram of a swept triangular wave.  For a similar example,  ap‐
              pend the following to the `chime' command in the description of the delay effect (above):

                 rate 2k spectrogram -X 200 -Z -10 -w kaiser

              Options are also available to control the appearance (color set, brightness, contrast etc.) and filename of the spectrogram; e.g. with

                 sox_ng my.wav -n spectrogram -m -l -o print.png

              a spectrogram is created suitable for printing on a black and white printer.

              Options

              -x num Change the (maximum) width (X axis) of the spectrogram from its default value of 800 pixels to a given number between 100 and a million.
                     See -X and -d.

              -X num X  axis pixels per second; the default is auto-calculated to fit the audio to the X axis size if its duration is known or given with -d,
                     or 100 otherwise.  If given without a -x option when the length of the audio is known, this option determines the width of the  spectro‐
                     gram; otherwise, it affects the duration of the spectrogram.  num can be from 1 (low time resolution) to 5000 (high time resolution) and
                     need  not  be  an integer.  SoX may make a slight adjustment to the given number for processing quantization reasons; if so, SoX reports
                     the actual number used (viewable when the SoX global option -V is in effect).

              -y num Sets the size of the Y axis per channel in pixels; this is the number of frequency `bins' used in the Fourier analysis that produces the
                     spectrogram.  By default the Y axis size is chosen automatically, depending on the -Y height and the number of channels, with a  minimum
                     of 64.

              -Y num Sets the total height of the spectrogram(s).  The default value is 550 pixels and the maximum is a million.  If num is not an exact mul‐
                     tiple of the number of channels, the actual total height will be a few pixel rows less.

              -z num Z  axis (color) range in dB, default 120.  This sets the dynamic range of the spectrogram to be -num dBFS to 0 dBFS.  Num may range from
                     20 to 180.  Decreasing dynamic range effectively increases the contrast of the spectrogram display and vice versa.

              -Z num Sets the upper limit of the Z axis in dBFS.  A negative num effectively increases the brightness of the  spectrogram  display  and  vice
                     versa.

              -n     Normalizes the upper limit of the Z axis so that the loudest pixels are shown using the brightest color in the palette - a kind of auto‐
                     matic -Z flag.

              -q num Sets  the  Z  axis  quantization, i.e. the number of different colors (or intensities) in which to render Z axis values.  A small number
                     (e.g. 4) gives a poster-like effect making it easier to discern magnitude bands of similar level and results in a smaller PNG file.  The
                     number given specifies the number of colors to use in the Z axis range; two colors are reserved to represent out-of-range values.

              -w name
                     Select a window function: Hann (the default), Hamming, Bartlett, Rectangular, Kaiser or Dolph.  The spectrogram is  produced  using  the
                     Discrete  Fourier Transform (DFT) algorithm and a significant parameter of this algorithm is the choice of window function.  By default,
                     SoX uses the Hann window, which has good all-round properties for frequency resolution and dynamic range.  For better frequency  resolu‐
                     tion but lower dynamic range, select a Hamming window; for higher dynamic range but poorer frequency resolution, select a Dolph window.

              -W num Window adjustment parameter.  This can be used to make small adjustments to the Kaiser and Dolph windows.  A positive number (up to ten)
                     increases its dynamic range, a negative number decreases it.

              -s     Allow  slack  overlapping  of DFT windows.  This can, in some cases, increase image sharpness and give greater adherence to the -x value
                     but at the expense of a little spectral loss.

              -m     Creates a monochrome spectrogram (the default is color).

              -h     Selects a high-color palette which is less visually pleasing than the default color palette but it may make it easier  to  differentiate
                     different levels.  If this option is used in conjunction with -m, the result is hybrid monochrome/color palette.

              -p num Permute the colors in a color or hybrid palette.  The num parameter, from 1 (the default) to 6, selects the permutation.

              -l     Creates a `printer-friendly' spectrogram with a light background (the default has a dark background).

              -a     Suppress the display of the axis lines.  This is sometimes useful in helping to discern artefacts at the spectrogram edges.

              -r     Raw spectrogram: suppress the display of axes and legends.

              -A     Selects  an  alternative,  fixed  color  set. This is provided only for compatibility with spectrograms produced by another package.  It
                     should not normally be used as it has some problems, not least, a lack of differentiation at the bottom end which results in masking  of
                     low-level artefacts.

              -t text
                     Set  the image title, the text to display above the spectrogram.  If you need it to be `chorus' or some other effect's name, surround it
                     by spaces inside double quotes.

              -c text
                     Set (or clear) the image comment, the text to display below and to the left of the spectrogram.

              -o file
                     The name of the spectrogram output PNG file, default `spectrogram.png'.  If `-' is given, the spectrogram is sent to the `standard  out‐
                     put' (stdout).

              -L     Plot the frequency on a logarithmic axis.

              -R L:H Specify the frequency range (from L to H).  The frequencies can have an optional suffix

                        sox_ng mymusic.mp3 -n spectrogram -L -R 100:8k

                     By default, the lowest frequency is 0Hz for a linear graph or 1Hz for a logarithmic graph and the highest is the Nyquist frequency.

              Advanced Options
              In  order to process a smaller section of audio without affecting other effects or the output signal (unlike when the trim effect is used), the
              following options may be used:

              -d duration
                     This option sets the X axis resolution such that audio with the given duration (a time specification) fits the selected (or  default)  X
                     axis width.  It defaults, if the audio length is known, to the audio length minus the start time.  For example,

                        sox_ng input.mp3 output.wav -n spectrogram -d 1:00 stats

                     creates a spectrogram showing the first minute of the audio, while the stats effect is applied to the entire audio signal.

                     See -X for an alternative way of setting the X axis resolution.

              -S position(=)
                     Start the spectrogram at the given point in the audio stream.  For example

                        sox_ng input.aiff output.wav spectrogram -S 1:00

                     creates a spectrogram showing all but the first minute of the audio (the output file, however, receives the entire audio stream).

              For the ability to perform off-line processing of spectral data, see stat -freq.

       speed factor[c]
              Adjust  the audio speed (pitch and tempo together).  factor is either the ratio of the new speed to the old speed (greater than 1 speeds it up,
              less than 1 slows it down) or, if the letter c is appended, it's the number of cents (100ths of a semitone) by  which  the  pitch  (and  tempo)
              should be adjusted: greater than 0 increases, less than 0 decreases.

              Technically,  the  speed  effect only changes the sample rate information, leaving the samples themselves untouched. The rate effect is invoked
              automatically to resample to the output sample rate, using its default quality/speed.  For higher quality or higher speed resampling, in  addi‐
              tion to the speed effect, specify the rate effect with the desired quality option.

              See the bend, pitch and tempo effects.

       speexdsp [-agc [target_level(100)]] [-denoise [max_db(15)]] [-dereverb]
              [-fps frames_per_second(20)] [-spf samples_per_frame]

              Use the Speex DSP library to improve perceived sound quality.

              If no options are specified, the -agc and -denoise features are enabled.

              -agc [target_level]
                     Enable automatic gain control and optionally specify a target volume level from 1 to 100.

              -denoise [max_db]
                     Enable noise reduction and optionally specify the maximum attenuation from 1 to 100.

              -dereverb
                     Enable reverb reduction.

              -fps frames_per_second
                     Specify the number of frames per second from 1-100.

              -spf samples_per_frame
                     Specify the number of samples per frame.  The default is derived from the -fps setting so that frames abut but do not overlap.

       splice  [-h|-t|-q] {position(=)[,excess[,leeway]]}
              Splice  audio  sections  together.  This effect provides two things over simple audio concatenation: a (usually short) cross-fade is applied at
              the join and a wave similarity comparison is made to help determine the best place at which to make the join.

              One of the options -h, -t, or -q may be given to select the fade envelope as half cosine wave (the default),  triangular  (a.k.a.  linear),  or
              quarter cosine wave (e.g. for a cross-fade of correlated audio).

                                                                  Audio          Fade level       Transitions
                                                             -h   correlated     constant gain    smooth
                                                             -t   correlated     constant gain    abrupt
                                                             -q   uncorrelated   constant power   smooth

              To  perform  a splice, first use the trim effect to select the audio sections to be joined together.  As when performing a tape splice, the end
              of the section to be spliced onto should be trimmed with a small excess (default 0.005 seconds) after the ideal joining point.   The  beginning
              of  the  audio  section  to  splice on should be trimmed with the same excess before the ideal joining point plus an additional leeway (default
              0.005 seconds).  SoX should then be invoked with the two audio sections as input files and the splice effect given with the position  at  which
              to perform the splice - this is length of the first audio section (including the excess).

              The  following  diagram  uses  the  tape  analogy to illustrate the splice operation.  The effect simulates the diagonal cuts and joins the two
              pieces:

                   length1   excess
                 -----------><--->
                 _________   :   :  _________________
                          \  :   : :\     `
                           \ :   : : \     `
                            \:   : :  \     `
                             *   : :   * - - *
                              \  : :   :\     `
                               \ : :   : \     `
                 _______________\: :   :  \_____`____
                                   :   :   :     :
                                   <--->   <----->
                                   excess  leeway

              where * indicates the joining points.

              For example, a long song begins with two verses which start (as determined e.g. by using the play_ng command with the trim (start)  effect)  at
              times 0:30.125 and 1:03.432.  The following commands cut out the first verse:

                 sox_ng too-long.wav part1.wav trim 0 30.130

              (5 ms excess, after the first verse starts)

                 sox_ng too-long.wav part2.wav trim 1:03.422

              (5 ms excess plus 5 ms leeway, before the second verse starts)

                 sox_ng part1.wav part2.wav just-right.wav splice 30.130

              For another example, the SoX command

                 play_ng "|sox_ng -n -p synth 1 sin %1" "|sox_ng -n -p synth 1 sin %3"

              generates  and plays two notes, but there is a nasty click at the transition; the click can be removed by splicing instead of concatenating the
              audio, i.e. by appending splice 1 to the command. Clicks at the beginning and end of the audio can be removed by preceding  the  splice  effect
              with fade q .01 2 .01.

              Provided  your  arithmetic is good enough, multiple splices can be performed with a single splice invocation.  For example, with a Bourne shell
              script `acpo':

                 #! /bin/sh
                 # Audio Copy and Paste Over
                 # acpo infile copy-start copy-stop paste-over-start outfile
                 # No chained time specifications allowed for the parameters
                 # (i.e. such that contain +/-).
                 e=0.005                      # Using default excess
                 l=$e                         # and leeway.
                 sox_ng "$1" piece.wav trim $2-$e-$l =$3+$e
                 sox_ng "$1" part1.wav trim 0 $4+$e
                 sox_ng "$1" part2.wav trim $4+$3-$2-$e-$l
                 sox_ng part1.wav piece.wav part2.wav "$5" \
                    splice $4+$e +$3-$2+$e+$l+$e

              two splices are used to `copy and paste' audio.

              It is also possible to use this effect to perform general cross-fades, e.g. to join two songs.  In this case, excess would typically be a  num‐
              ber of seconds, the -q option would typically be given to select an `equal power' cross-fade and leeway should be zero (which is the default if
              -q is given).  For example, if f1.wav and f2.wav are audio files to be cross-faded, then

                 sox_ng f1.wav f2.wav out.wav splice -q $(soxi_ng -D f1.wav),3

              cross-fades the files where the point of equal loudness is 3 seconds before the end of f1.wav, i.e. the total length of the cross-fade is 2 × 3
              = 6 seconds ($(...) is POSIX shell notation that is replaced by the output of the enclosed command).

       stat [-s scale] [-rms] [-freq] [-v] [-d] [-a] [-h]
              Display time and frequency domain statistical information about the audio.  Audio is passed unmodified through the SoX processing chain.

              The  information is output to the `standard error' (stderr) stream and is calculated (where n is the duration of the audio in samples, c is the
              number of audio channels, r is the audio sample rate and xk represents the value (in the range -1 to +1) of each successive sample in  the  au‐
              dio), as follows:

              Samples read         n×c
              Length (seconds)     n÷r
              Scaled by            See -s below.
              Maximum amplitude    max(xk) The maximum sample value in the audio; usually this will be a positive number.
              Minimum amplitude    min(xk) The minimum sample value in the audio; usually this will be a negative number.
              Midline amplitude    ½min(xk)+½max(xk)
              Mean norm            ¹/nΣ│xk│ The average of the absolute value of each sample in the audio.
              Mean amplitude       ¹/nΣxk The average of each sample in the audio.  If this figure is non-zero, then it indicates the presence of a DC offset
                                   which could be removed using the dcshift effect.
              RMS amplitude        √(¹/nΣxk²) The level of a DC signal that would have the same power as the audio's average power.
              Maximum delta        max(│xk-xk-1│)
              Minimum delta        min(│xk-xk-1│)
              Mean delta           ¹/n-1Σ│xk-xk-1│
              RMS delta            √(¹/n-1Σ(xk-xk-1)²)
              EBUR128 Momentary    The maximum momentary loudness over 400ms
              EBUR128 Short Term   The maximum short term loudness over 3 seconds
              EBUR128 Integrated   The integrated loudness over the whole file
              EBUR128 True Peak    The maximum of the True Peak of each channel
              Rough frequency      In Hz.
              Volume Adjustment    The  parameter  to  the vol effect which would make the audio as loud as possible without clipping.  See the discussion on
                                   Clipping above for reasons why it is rarely a good idea actually to do this.

              Note that the delta measurements are not applicable to multichannel audio and EBU R 128 (=ITU-R BS.1770) measurements  are  in  Loudness  Units
              referenced to Full Scale (LUFS),

              The  -s  option can be used to scale the input data by a given factor.  The default value of scale is 2147483647 (the maximum value of a 32-bit
              signed integer) as internal effects always work with those.  A lower value means that a different sample value  should  be  considered  as  the
              full-scale amplitude.

              The -rms option converts all average values to `root mean square' format.

              The -freq option outputs the input's power spectrum (a 4096-point DFT) instead of the statistics listed above.  This should only be used with a
              single-channel audio file.

              The -v option displays only the `Volume Adjustment' value.

              The  -d option displays a hex dump of the 32-bit signed PCM data audio in SoX's internal buffer.  This is mainly used to help track down endian
              problems that sometimes occur in cross-platform versions of SoX.

              The -a option outputs the average power spectrum instead of the power spectrum for each 4096-point DFT.

              The -h option uses the "histogram algorithm" to calculate the integrated EBU R-128 loudness, which requires less memory but is less accurate.

              The -j option outputs the statistics in JSON format, e.g.:

              {
                "samples_read": 22699008,
                "length": 236.448,
                "scaled_by": 2.14748e+09,
                "maximum_amplitude": 0.818604,
                "minimum_amplitude": -0.532471,
                "midline_amplitude": 0.143066,
                "mean_norm": 0.0352694,
                "mean_amplitude": 0.00180676,
                "rms_amplitude": 0.056726,
                "maximum_delta": 0.367126,
                "minimum_delta": 0,
                "mean_delta": 0.0177341,
                "rms_delta": 0.0268538,
                "rough_frequency": 3616,
                "volume_adjustment": 1.22159
              }

              If -rms was given, "scaled_by" will be "scaled_by_rms" and if -e was given, you also get

                "ebur128_momentary": -30.3408,
                "ebur128_short_term": -35.4501,
                "ebur128_integrated": -21.3583,

              Some fields may be absent if their values are incalculable (EBUR128 figures) or would be infinite (like the RMS of silence).

              As JSON uses scientific notation, it can shows the values of very small numbers that the usual output shows as zero.

              The most common use of stat is to measure the characteristics of a single audio file, for which the syntax is:

                 sox_ng file.wav -n stat

              where -n means "No audio output is required."

       stats [-b bits|-x bits|-s scale] [-w time] [-j]
              Display time domain statistical information about the audio channels; audio is passed unmodified through the SoX processing chain.   Statistics
              are calculated and displayed for each audio channel and, where applicable, an overall figure is also given.

              For example, for a typical well-mastered stereo music file:

                              Overall     Left      Right
                 DC offset   0.000803 -0.000391  0.000803
                 Min level  -0.750977 -0.750977 -0.653412
                 Max level   0.708801  0.708801  0.653534
                 Pk lev dB      -2.49     -2.49     -3.69
                 RMS lev dB    -19.41    -19.13    -19.71
                 RMS Pk dB     -13.82    -13.82    -14.38
                 RMS Tr dB     -85.25    -85.25    -82.66
                 Crest factor       -      6.79      6.32
                 Flat factor     0.00      0.00      0.00
                 Pk count           2         2         2
                 Bit-depth      16/16     16/16     16/16
                 Num samples    7.72M
                 Length s     174.973
                 Scale max   1.000000
                 Window s       0.050

              DC offset,  Min level,  and  Max level are shown, by default, in the range ±1.  If the -b (bits) options is given, these three measurements are
              scaled to a signed integer with the given number of bits from 2 to 32.  For example, for 16 bits, the scale would be -32768 to +32767.  The  -x
              option  behaves the same way as -b except that the signed integer values are displayed in hexadecimal.  The -s option scales the three measure‐
              ments by a given floating point number.

              Pk lev dB and RMS lev dB are the standard peak and RMS levels measured in dBFS.  RMS Pk dB and RMS Tr dB are peak and trough values of the  RMS
              level measured over a short window (default: 50ms).  That can be changed with the -w option in seconds from 0.01 to 10.

              Crest factor is the ratio of peak to RMS level (note: not in dB).

              Flat factor is a measure of the flatness (i.e. consecutive samples with the same value) of the signal at its peak levels (i.e. either Min level
              or Max level).

              Pk count  is  the number of occasions (not the number of samples) that the signal attained either Min level, or Max level.  The primary goal of
              the Peak Count value is to answer the question "has this audio been clipped?", quite possibly as a result of the frowned-upon-by-some but  com‐
              mon  practice  of  'brick wall limiting' in modern mastering. The closer the "Peak Count" is to 1, the higher the confidence that the audio has
              not been clipped.

              The right-hand Bit-depth figure is the standard definition of bit-depth, i.e. that all bits other than this number of the most significant bits
              are always zero.  The left-hand figure is the number of bits at the least significant end of those most significant bits that would  be  suffi‐
              cient to represent all sample values accurately (including the sign bit).

              In  mathematical  terms, the right-hand figure is the ordinal, counting from the most significant bit, of the least significant bit that is set
              to one in at least one sample.  The left-hand figure is the ordinal, counting from the least significant repeated sign bit across all  samples,
              of the least significant bit that is set to one in at least one sample.

              Bit-depths are not intended to be properties of the signal per se but properties of its 2's-complement PCM encoding.

              The  primary  use  case of bit-depth measurement concerns manipulation of PCM audio by simple bit shifting, to answer questions such as: "Is it
              likely that this 24-bit PCM file was created by simply converting a 16-bit PCM file to 24-bit?" or "Can I losslessly shift all the  samples  in
              this PCM audio file m-bits left or n-bits right?"

              For  multichannel audio, an overall figure for each of the above measurements is given and derived from the channel figures as follows: DC off‐
              set: maximum magnitude; Max level, Pk lev dB, RMS Pk dB, Bit-depth: maximum; Min level, RMS Tr dB: minimum; RMS lev dB, Flat factor,  Pk count:
              average; Crest factor: not applicable.

              Length s  is the duration in seconds of the audio and, unlike stat, Num samples is equal to the sample rate multiplied by Length.  Scale max is
              the scaling applied to the first three measurements; specifically, it is the maximum value that could apply  to  Max level.   Window s  is  the
              length of the window used for the peak and trough RMS measurements.

              The -j option outputs JSON with three fields:

              "channel_count"
                     An integer.

              "overall"
                     An  object with a member for each row of the first column of the usual output, which are all numbers except for "bit_depth", which is an
                     array of two numbers.

              "channels"
                     An array of objects with the per-channel values.
       To know the overall and the channels' member names, have a look at the output.

       Like stat, the usual way to measure the characteristics of a single audio file is:

          sox_ng file.wav -n stats

       stretch [factor [window [fade [shift [fading]]]]]
              Change the audio duration but not its pitch by cross-fading between short windows of samples.  This effect is broadly equivalent to  the  tempo
              effect  with factor inverted and search set to zero so, in general, its results are comparatively poor; it is retained as it can sometimes out‐
              perform tempo for small factors.

              factor determines the change in length: >1 lengthens and <1 shortens.  By default, it is 1 (no change)

              window is the length of the cross-fading window in milliseconds with a default of 20.

              The fade option chooses the type of crossfading: linear and half-cosine give equal-gain crossfading and cannot clip;  sqrt  and  quarter-cosine
              give two kinds of equal-power crossfading.

              The shift ratio can be from 0 to 1 and its default depends on the stretch factor: 1 when speeding up, 0.8 when slowing down.

              The  fading ratio, from 0 to 0.5, seems to be how much of each window is cross-faded with the adjacent ones.  The default value depends on fac‐
              tor and shift: 1.0 − (factor × shift) if speeding up, 1.0 − shift if slowing down, with a maximum of 0.5.

              The duration of stretch's output is slightly longer than the duration of the input multiplied by factor as it has to empty the  delay  line  it
              uses; tempo is more precise.

       swap   Swap  stereo channels.  If the input is not stereo, pairs of channels are swapped and a possible odd last channel is passed through.  E.g., for
              seven channels, the output order will be 2, 1, 4, 3, 6, 5, 7.

              See remix for an effect that allows arbitrary channel selection, ordering and mixing.

       synth [-j key] [-n] [length [offset [phase [p1 [p2 [p3]]]]]]
              {type [combine [fixed[,extra[,mix]]]] [freq[:|+|/|-freq2] [offset [phase [p1 [p2 [p3]]]]]]}

              synth generates fixed or swept frequency audio tones with various wave shapes and wide-band noise of various colors.   Multiple  synth  effects
              can  be  cascaded  to produce more complex waveforms and at each stage it is possible to choose whether the generated waveform is mixed with or
              modulated onto the output of the previous stage, and the audio for each channel in a multichannel audio file can be synthesized independently.

              It generates audio at maximum volume (0dBFS), which means that there is a high chance of clipping so, in many cases, you will want to follow it
              with the gain effect to prevent this from happening. (See Clipping above.)

              Though this effect is used to generate audio, an input file must still be given, the characteristics of which are used to set  the  synthesized
              audio  length, the number of channels and the sampling rate.  However, since the input file's audio is not normally needed, a `null file' (with
              the special input filename -n) is often given instead and the length specified as a parameter to synth or by some other effect that has an  as‐
              sociated length.

              By default, the tuning used with note notations is equal temperament; the -j key option selects just intonation, where key is a whole number of
              semitones  relative to A (so for example, -9 or 3 selects the key of C) or a note in scientific notation.  ,SP By default, the synth effect in‐
              corporates the functionality of gain -h (see the gain effect for details); synth's -n option may be given to disable this behaviour.

              length is the length of audio to synthesize.  A value of 0 indicated to use the input length, which is also the default.  Note that, if the in‐
              put is -n and the length is 0 or absent, it continues generating audio until it is stopped in some other way.

              type is one of

              sine   A sinusoidal wave is the default type and ignores all the p parameters.

              square A square wave.  p1 sets the percentage of each cycle that is `on' with a default of 50.

                       |_______        | +1
                       |       |       |
                       |_______|_______|  0
                       |       |       |
                       |       |_______| -1
                       |               |
                       0       p1      1

              triangle
                     p1 sets the percentage of each cycle that is `rising' with a default of 50.

                       |    .    | +1
                       |   / \   |
                       |__/___\__|  0
                       | /     \ |
                       |/       \| -1
                       |         |
                       0    p1   1

              sawtooth
                     A sawtooth wave. With a phase of 0 it starts at -1 and rises to 1, and of 10 it starts at -0.9.  The offset makes no difference.

                       |    /| +1
                       |   / |
                       |__/__|  0
                       | /   |
                       |/    | -1
                       0     1

              trapezium
                     The trapezoidal wave starts at -1, rises linearly to 1, stays there, falls linearly to -1, stays there and repeats.  p1  sets  the  per‐
                     centage of the cycle in which the wave is rising with a default of 10, p2 sets the percentage through each cycle at which falling begins
                     with a default of 50 and p3 sets the percentage through each cycle at which falling ends with a default of 60.

                       |    ______             |+1
                       |   /      \            |
                       |__/________\___________| 0
                       | /          \          |
                       |/            \_________|-1
                       |                       |
                       0   p1    p2   p3       1

              exp    The  exponential wave rises from -1 to 1 where it peaks and immediately begins an exponential fall.  p1 sets the position of the maximum
                     with a default of 50.  p2 sets the minimum amplitude in multiples of 2dB down from the maximum with a default of 50 (100dB); values  be‐
                     low 50 raise the shoulders of the wave and values above 50 lower the shoulders, increasing the pointedness of the spike.

                       |                           | +1
                       |            /\             |
                       |          _'  `_           | 0
                       |        _-      -_         |
                       |____---'          `---____ | f(p2)
                       |                           |
                       0             p1             1

              whitenoise
                     Random  noise with equal power at every frequency.  All noise generators ignore the frequency and phase parameters but if a DC offset is
                     given, the signal's amplitude is automatically adjusted to prevent clipping so, for noise in the range 0 to 1, an offset  of  0.5  would
                     give a signal ranging from 0.0 to 1.0 and -0.9 from -1.0 to -0.8

                     noise is a handy alias for whitenoise

              tpdfnoise
                     Noise with a Triangular Probability Density Function.

              pinknoise
                     Random noise with the power at each frequency inversely proportional to the frequency.

              brownnoise
                     Random noise with the power at each frequency inversely proportional to the frequency squared.

              pluck  A plucked string simulation in which an array of sample values representing a taut string is set in motion with a burst of noise and de‐
                     cayed over time.

                     A plucked note's frequency can be from 27.5 to 4220Hz and the sampling rate must be between 44100 and 48000Hz.

                     If a DC offset is used, the amplitude is automatically adjusted to prevent clipping.

                     p1 affects the sustain with a default of 40 (2dB per second); higher values give a slower decay and lower values a faster one.

                     p2  and p3 are tone controls for the initial excitation, with default values of 20 and 90 and a special case when p3 is exactly 100.  If
                     the phase is non-zero, it uses a different kind of random numbers.

              If the offset, phase and p parameters are given before the first type, they set the default values for all the following stages.

              combine is one of

              create Puts each stage's output in a new output channel and is the default:

              mix    Mixes the generated audio 50:50 with the input signal.

              amod   Amplitude-modulates (multiplies) the input signal by the synthesized one considered as a value from 0 (for the most negative value) to 1
                     (for the most positive value).

              fmod   Multiplies the input signal with the synthesized one (ring modulation).

              vdelay Mixes the input signal with a delayed version of it using the synthesized signal to modulate the depth  of  the  delay.   The  following
                     three-part  option  fixed[,extra[,mix]] specifies the fixed and additional parts of the delay in milliseconds and what percentage of the
                     output consists of the delayed signal from 0 for all input signal to 100 for all delayed signal with a default of 50 (half and half).

                     The synthesized signal's value from -1 to +1 varies the delay from fixed seconds to fixed + (0 to extra) seconds.

                     It interpolates linearly between the input samples and can be used to make precision phaser, flanger and  chorus-like  effects,  vibrato
                     and frequency modulation (FM) synthesis (actually phase modulation, as used in the Yamaha DX7).

                     A chorus-like effect:

                        sox_ng solo.au -d synth sine vdelay 50,2,50 .25 0 75

                     A flanger:

                        sox_ng solo.au -d synth triangle vdelay 0,2,41.52 0.5 0 0

              freq and freq2 are the frequencies at the beginning and end of the synthesis and the default frequency is 440Hz.

              If  freq2  is given, length must also have been given and the generated tone is swept between the given frequencies.  The two given frequencies
              must be separated by one of the characters `:', `+', `/' and `-', which specify the sweep function as follows:

              :      Linear: the tone changes by a fixed number of hertz per second.

              +      Square: a second-order function is used to change the tone.

              /      Exponential: the tone changes by a fixed number of semitones per second.

              -      Exponential: as `/', but the initial phase is always zero, and with stepped (less smooth) frequency changes.

              The frequency or frequency range is not used for the noise types.

              offset is the bias (DC offset) of the signal in percent; default=0.

              phase is the phase shift as a percentage of 1 cycle with a default of 0 (not used for noise).

              For example, the following produces a 3-second 48kHz audio file containing a sine wave swept from 300 to 3300Hz:

                 sox_ng -n output.wav synth 3 sine 300-3300

              Multiple channels can be synthesized by specifying the set of parameters shown between curly braces multiple  times;  the  following  puts  the
              swept tone in the left channel and brown noise in the right:

                 sox_ng -n output.wav synth 3 sine 300-3300 brownnoise

              The following example shows how two synth effects can be cascaded to create a more complex waveform:

                 play_ng -n synth 0.5 sine 200-500 synth 0.5 sine fmod 700-100

              The following could be used to help tune a guitar:

                 for n in E2 A2 D3 G3 B3 E4; do
                   play_ng -n synth 4 pluck $n repeat 2; done

       tempo [-q] [-m|-s|-l] factor [segment(82) [search(14.68) [overlap(12)]]]
              Change  the  audio  playback speed but not its pitch. This effect uses the WSOLA (Waveform Similarity OverLap and Add) algorithm.  The audio is
              chopped up into segments which are then shifted in the time domain and overlapped (cross-faded) at points where their waveforms are most  simi‐
              lar as determined by the measurement of `least squares'.

              By  default,  linear  searches  are used to find the best overlapping points. If the optional -q parameter is given, tree searches are used in‐
              stead. This makes the effect work more quickly, but the result may not sound as good. However, if you must improve the processing  speed,  this
              generally reduces the sound quality less than reducing the search or overlap values.

              The -m option is used to optimize the default values of segment, search and overlap for music processing.

              The -s option is used to optimize default values of segment, search and overlap for speech processing.

              The  -l  option  is  used to optimize default values of segment, search and overlap for `linear' processing that tends to cause more noticeable
              distortion but may be useful when factor is close to 1.

              If -m, -s or -l is specified, the default value of segment is based on factor, while default search and overlap values are  based  on  segment.
              Any values you provide override these default values.

              factor gives the ratio of new tempo to the old tempo, so 1.1 speeds the tempo up by 10% and 0.9 slows it down by 10%.

              The optional segment parameter selects the algorithm's segment size in milliseconds.  If no other flags are specified, the default value is 82,
              which  is suited to small changes in the tempo of music. For larger changes (e.g. a factor of 2), 41 may give a better result.  The -m, -s, and
              -l flags cause segment's default value to be adjusted automatically based on factor.

              The optional search parameter gives the audio length in milliseconds over which the algorithm searches for overlapping  points.   If  no  other
              flags  are specified, the default value is 14.68.  Larger values use more processing time and may or may not produce better results.  A practi‐
              cal maximum is half the value of segment. Search can be reduced to cut processing time at the risk of degrading output quality. The -m, -s  and
              -l flags cause the search default to be adjusted automatically based on segment.

              The optional overlap parameter gives the segment overlap length in milliseconds.  Its default value is 12 but the -m, -s and -l flags automati‐
              cally  adjust  it  based  on the segment size.  Increasing overlap increases processing time but may increase quality.  A practical maximum for
              overlap is a little less then search.

              See speed for an effect that changes tempo and pitch together, pitch and bend for effects that change pitch only and stretch for an effect that
              changes the tempo using a different algorithm.

       treble gain [frequency [width[s|h|k|o|q]]]
              Apply a treble tone control effect.  See the description of the bass effect for details.

       tremolo speed [depth]
              Apply a tremolo (low frequency sinusoidal amplitude modulation) effect to the audio.  The frequency of the tremolo in Hz is given by speed  and
              its depth is a percentage with a default of 40.

       trim {position(+)}
              Cuts  out  portions  of  the audio.  Any number of positions may be given; audio is not sent to the output until the first position is reached.
              The effect then alternates between copying and discarding audio at each position.  Using a value of 0 for the first position  parameter  allows
              copying from the beginning of the audio.

              For example,

                 sox_ng in.au out.au trim 0 10

              copies the first ten seconds, while

                 play_ng in.au trim 12:34 =15:00 -2:00

              and

                 play_ng in.au trim 12:34 2:26 -2:00

              both  play  from  12 minutes 34 seconds into the audio up to 15 minutes in (i.e. 2 minutes and 26 seconds long) then resume playing two minutes
              before the end.

       upsample [factor(2)]
              Upsample the signal by an integer factor: factor-1 zero-valued samples are inserted between each pair of input samples.  As a result, the orig‐
              inal spectrum is replicated into the new frequency space and attenuated.  This attenuation can be compensated for by  adding  vol factor.   The
              upsample effect is typically used in combination with filtering effects.

              For a general resampling effect with antialiasing, see rate.  See downsample.

       vad [options]
              The  Voice  Activity  Detector  attempts  to  trim  silence  and  quiet background sounds from the ends of (fairly high resolution i.e. 16-bit,
              44-48kHz) recordings of speech.  The algorithm currently uses a simple cepstral power measurement to detect voice, so may be  fooled  by  other
              things, especially music.  The effect can trim only from the front of the audio, so in order to trim from the back, the reverse effect must al‐
              so be used.  E.g.

                 play_ng speech.wav norm vad

              to trim from the front,

                 play_ng speech.wav norm reverse vad reverse

              to trim from the back and

                 play_ng speech.wav norm vad reverse vad reverse

              to  trim  from  both  ends.   The  use  of  the norm effect is recommended, but remember that neither reverse nor norm is suitable for use with
              streamed audio.

              Options
              Default values are shown in parentheses, the allowed range in square brackets.

              -t num (7) [0 - 20]
                     The measurement level used to trigger activity detection.  This might need to be changed depending on the noise level, signal level  and
                     other characteristics of the input audio.

              -T num (0.25) [0.01 - 1]
                     The time constant (in seconds) used to help ignore short bursts of sound.

              -s num (1) [0.1 - 4]
                     The amount of audio (in seconds) to search for quieter/shorter bursts of audio to include prior to the detected trigger point.

              -g num (0.25) [0.1 - 1]
                     Allowed gap (in seconds) between quieter/shorter bursts of audio to include prior to the detected trigger point.

              -p num (0) [0 - 4]
                     The amount of audio (in seconds) to preserve before the trigger point and any found quieter/shorter bursts.

              Advanced Options
              These allow fine tuning of the algorithm's internal parameters.

              -b num (0.35) [0.1 - 10]
                     The  algorithm  uses adaptive noise estimation/reduction in order to detect the start of the wanted audio.  This option sets the time in
                     seconds for the initial noise estimate.

              -N num (0.1) [0.1 - 10]
                     Time constant used by the adaptive noise estimator when the noise level is increasing.

              -n num (0.01) [0.001 - 0.1]
                     Time constant used by the adaptive noise estimator when the noise level is decreasing.

              -r num (1.35) [0 - 2]
                     Amount of noise reduction to use in the detection algorithm.

              -f num (20) [5 - 50]
                     Frequency of the algorithm's processing/measurements.

              -m num (0.1) [0.01 - 1]
                     Measurement duration. By default, it is twice the measurement period; i.e. with 50% overlap, but if you set -f, you also need to  change
                     -m to 2 divided by its value to keep a 50% overlap.

              -M num (0.4) [0-1 - 1]
                     Time constant used to smooth spectral measurements.

              -h freq (50) [10 -]
                     `Brick-wall' frequency of the high-pass filter applied at the detector algorithm's input.

              -l freq (6000) [1000 -]
                     `Brick-wall' frequency of the low-pass filter applied at the detector algorithm's input.

              -H freq (150) [10 -]
                     `Brick-wall' frequency of the high-pass lifter used in the detector algorithm.

              -L freq (2000) [1000 -]
                     `Brick-wall' frequency of the low-pass lifter used in the detector algorithm.

              See the silence effect.

       vol gain [type [limiter-gain]]
              Apply  amplification or attenuation to the audio signal.  Unlike -v, which is used for balancing multiple input files as they enter the SoX ef‐
              fects processing chain, vol is an effect like any other so can be applied anywhere in the processing chain and several times if necessary.

              The amount to change the volume is given by gain which is interpreted, according to the given type, as follows: if type  is  amplitude  (or  is
              omitted), gain is an amplitude ratio (voltage or linear), if power, a power ratio (wattage or voltage squared) and if dB, a power change in dB.

              When type is amplitude or power, a gain of 1 leaves the volume unchanged, less than 1 decreases it, and greater than 1 increases it; a negative
              gain inverts the audio signal in addition to adjusting its volume.

              When type is dB, a gain of 0 leaves the volume unchanged, less than 0 decreases it and greater than 0 increases it.

              See [4] for a detailed discussion on electrical (and hence audio signal) voltage and power ratios.

              Beware of Clipping when the increasing the volume.

              The gain and the type parameters can be concatenated if desired, e.g.  vol 10dB.

              An optional limiter-gain value can be specified and should be a value much less than 1 (e.g. 0.05 or 0.02) and is used only on peaks to prevent
              clipping.   Not specifying this parameter causes no limiter to be used.  In verbose mode, this effect displays the percentage of the audio that
              needed to be limited.

              See gain for a volume-changing effect with different capabilities and compand for a dynamic range compression/expansion/limiting effect.

ENVIRONMENT
       SoX reacts to the following environment variables.  To set them on Unix with most shells, use, for example:

          AUDIODRIVER=oss
          export AUDIODRIVER
          play_ng ...

       with Unix csh:

          setenv AUDIODRIVER oss

       or, on Microsoft Windows:

          set AUDIODRIVER=waveaudio

       MS-Windows GUI: via Control Panel : System : Advanced : Environment Variables

       Mac OS X GUI: Refer to Apple's Technical Q&A QA1067 document.

       AUDIODRIVER
              On some systems, SoX may have more than one type of audio driver, e.g. ALSA and OSS or SUNAU and AO and they can have more than one  audio  de‐
              vice (a.k.a. `sound card').  If more than one audio driver has been built into SoX and the default selected by SoX when recording or playing is
              not the one that is wanted, the AUDIODRIVER environment variable can be used to override the default.  For example, on Unix systems:

                 AUDIODRIVER=oss
                 export AUDIODRIVER
                 play_ng ...

              If  it  is  unset, SoX tries to use, in order, coreaudio, pulseaudio, alsa, waveaudio, sndio, oss, sunau and ao.  For further details on these,
              see their entries in soxformat_ng(7).

       AUDIODEV
              Override the default audio device, e.g.

                 AUDIODEV=/dev/dsp2
                 export AUDIODEV
                 play_ng ...
                 sox_ng ... -t oss

              or

                 AUDIODEV=hw:soundwave,1,2
                 export AUDIODEV
                 play_ng ...
                 sox_ng ... -t alsa

              If AUDIODEV is unset and the audio driver is oss, SoX also responds to the standard environment variable OSS_AUDIODEV.

       LADSPA_PATH
              A colon-separated list of directories in which to search for LADSPA plugins.  The default depends on how SoX was built but on Unix it  defaults
              to  /usr/lib/ladspa,  on  MacOS/X  to /Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/LADSPA.  Windows doesn't have a "usual place" for LADSPA plugins, but Ardour puts
              them in C:\Program Files\Ardour6\lib\ardour6\ladspa or similar.

       LD_LIBRARY_PATH
              When searching for the dynamic libraries in which most effects and format handlers may be stored, according to how your SoX was built, look  in
              this colon-separated list of directories before the default location.

       MIXERDEV
              When playing a file, use the specified mixer device for the 'v' and 'V' volume control keys.

       SOX_OPTS
              Provide alternative default values for SoX's global options.  For example:

                 SOX_OPTS="--buffer 20000 --play-rate-arg -hs --temp /mnt/temp"
                 export SOX_OPTS

              Note  that  setting SOX_OPTS can create unwanted changes in the behaviour of scripts or other programs that invoke SoX.  SOX_OPTS might best be
              used for things that reflect the environment in which SoX is being run and enabling options such as --no-clobber by default  might  be  handled
              better using a shell alias since that will not affect SoX's operation in scripts or when it is used by other programs.

              One  way to ensure that scripts and programs cannot be affected by SOX_OPTS is to clear SOX_OPTS at the start of the script, but this loses the
              benefit of SOX_OPTS carrying system-wide defaults.

       TEMP and TMP
              On Windows, tmpfile() is broken  -  it creates the file in the root directory of the current drive instead of in a valid temporary directory  -
              but if TEMP or TMP are set, it creates them in the directory indicated, otherwise in the current directory.  To force  use  of  tmpfile(),  use
              --temp .

              Alternatively, and on Unix, use --temp (see Global Options above).

EXIT STATUS
       SoX exits 0 when there is no error, 1 if there is a problem with the command-line parameters or 2 if an error occurs during audio processing.

BUGS
       Please report any bugs found in this version of SoX to the mailing list <sox-ng@groups.io>.

CITATION
       To cite SoX in publications please use:

       Lance Norskog, Chris Bagwell et al. (2015).
       SoX: Sound eXchange, the Swiss Army knife of audio manipulation.
       URL http://sox.sourceforge.net

       A BibTeX entry for SoX users is

       @manual{SoX2015,
         title = "SoX: Sound eXchange, the Swiss Army knife of audio manipulation",
         author = "Norskog, Lance and Bagwell, Chris and others",
         edition = "14.4.2",
         year = 2015,
         url = "http://sox.sourceforge.net",
       }

SEE ALSO
       soxi_ng(1), soxformat_ng(7), libsox_ng(3) audacity(1), ecasound(1), gnuplot(1), octave(1).
       The sox_ng web site at https://codeberg.org/sox_ng/sox_ng
       SoX scripting examples at https://codeberg.org/sox_ng/sox_ng/src/branch/main/scripts

   References
       [1]    R. Bristow-Johnson, Cookbook formulae for audio EQ biquad filter coefficients,
              https://www.w3.org/TR/audio-eq-cookbook

       [2]    Wikipedia, Q-factor,
              http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Q_factor

       [3]    Scott Lehman, Effects Explained,
              https://codeberg.org/sox_ng/Effects-Explained

       [4]    Wikipedia, Decibel,
              http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decibel

       [5]    Richard Furse, Linux Audio Developer's Simple Plugin API,
              http://www.ladspa.org

       [6]    Richard Furse, Computer Music Toolkit,
              http://www.ladspa.org/cmt/overview.html

       [7]    Steve Harris, LADSPA plugins,
              http://plugin.org.uk

LICENSE
       Copyright 1998-2013 Chris Bagwell and SoX Contributors.
       Copyright 1991 Lance Norskog and Sundry Contributors.

       This  program  is  free  software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
       Software Foundation, version 2.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FIT‐
       NESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

AUTHORS
       Lance Norskog, Chris Bagwell and many others listed in the AUTHORS file that is distributed with the source code.

sox_ng                                                                December 05, 2024                                                                SoX(1)
