SPACENAVD(8)                                                                              System Manager's Manual                                                                              SPACENAVD(8)

NAME
       spacenavd, spnavd_ctl - daemon for 3D-input-devices

SYNOPSIS
       spacenavd
       spnavd_ctl

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the spacenavd commands.

       The  spacenav  project  provides  a  free, compatible alternative, to the proprietary 3Dconnexion device driver and SDK, for their 3D input devices (called “space navigator”, “space pilot”, “space
       traveller”, etc).

       spacenavd, is a free software replacement user-space driver (daemon), for 3Dconnexion's space-something 6dof input devices. It's compatible with the original 3dxsrv proprietary daemon provided  by
       3Dconnexion, and works perfectly with any program that was written for the 3Dconnexion driver.

   Starting
       Depending  on  how  your system startup process is set up, it might be the case that the spacenavd daemon starts before the X server (for instance if you don't use a graphical login). In that case
       the daemon will start properly, but won't connect to the X server until explicitly told to do so. You can do that by running spnavd_ctl x11 start as root, or by using the graphical  spnavcfg  pro‐
       gram. You don't really want to have to do that all the time though, so it's a better idea to add the aforementioned spnavd_ctl command to either your ~/.xsession or ~/.xinitrd file, or the system-
       wide /etc/X11/Xsession file.

   Configuration
       The spacenavd daemon reads a number of options from the /etc/spnavrc file. If that file doesn't exist, then it uses default values for everything. You may use the graphical spnavcfg program to in‐
       teractively set any of these options.  The daemon should respond immediately to your changes, and also the configuration file should be updated automatically.

AUTHOR
       spacenavd was written by John Tsiombikas (nuclear@member.fsf.org)

       This manual page was assembled by M G Berberich <berberic@invalid>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

                                                                                              January 27, 2009                                                                                 SPACENAVD(8)
