SPECTACLE(1)                                                                                Spectacle User's Manual                                                                                SPECTACLE(1)

NAME
       spectacle - screenshot capture Utility

SYNOPSIS
       spectacle [Spectacle options]

DESCRIPTION
       spectacle is a simple application for capturing desktop screenshots. It can capture images of the entire desktop, a single monitor, the currently active window, the window currently under the mouse,
       or a rectangular region of the screen. The images can then be printed, sent to other applications for manipulation, or quickly be saved as-is.

SPECTACLE OPTIONS
       -f, --fullscreen
           Capture the entire desktop (default).

       -m, --current
           Capture the current monitor.

       -a, --activewindow
           Capture the active window.

       -u, --windowundercursor
           Capture the window currently under the cursor, including parents of pop-up menus.

       -t, --transientonly
           Capture the window currently under the cursor, excluding parents of pop-up menus.

       -r, --region
           Capture a rectangular region of the screen.

       -g, --gui
           Start in GUI mode (default).

       -b, --background
           Take a screenshot and exit without showing the GUI.

       -s, --dbus
           Start in DBus-Activation mode.

       -n, --nonotify
           In background mode, do not pop up a notification when the screenshot is taken.

       -o, --output fileName
           In background mode, save image to specified file fileName.

       -d, --delay delayMsec
           In background mode, delay before taking the shot (in milliseconds).

       -c, --clipboard
           In background mode, copy screenshot to clipboard.

       -w, --onclick
           Wait for a click before taking screenshot. Invalidates delay..

       -i, --new-instance
           Starts a new GUI instance of spectacle without registering to DBus.

       -i, --pointer
           In background mode, include pointer in the screenshot.

       -e, --no-decoration
           In background mode, do not include window decorations in the screenshot.

FEEDBACK
       On IRC, irc.libera.chat #kde or via email, kde-graphics-devel@kde.org or on the web, <https://apps.kde.org/spectacle>

SEE ALSO
           More detailed user documentation is available from help:/spectacle (either enter this URL into Konqueror, or run khelpcenter help:/spectacle).
           kf5options(7)
           qt5options(7)
           There is also further information available at https://apps.kde.org/spectacle

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2015 Boudhayan Gupta

       License: GNU General Public Version 2 <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html>

AUTHOR
       Yuri Chornoivan <yurchor@ukr.net>
           Spectacle man page.

KDE Applications Spectacle 21.                                                                     2021-04-11                                                                                      SPECTACLE(1)
