SPHINX-BUILD(1)                                                             Sphinx                                                            SPHINX-BUILD(1)

NAME
       sphinx-build - Sphinx documentation generator tool

SYNOPSIS
       sphinx-build [options] <sourcedir> <outputdir> [filenames ...]

DESCRIPTION
       sphinx-build generates documentation from the files in <sourcedir> and places it in the <outputdir>.

       sphinx-build  looks  for  <sourcedir>/conf.py  for the configuration settings.  sphinx-quickstart(1) may be used to generate template files, including
       conf.py.

       sphinx-build can create documentation in different formats.  A format is selected by specifying the builder name on the command line; it  defaults  to
       HTML.  Builders can also perform other tasks related to documentation processing.  For a list of available builders, refer to Builders <>.

       By default, everything that is outdated is built.  Output only for selected files can be built by specifying individual filenames.

OPTIONS
       -M buildername
              Select  a  builder,  using  the  make-mode.   See  Builders  <>  for a list of all of Sphinx's built-in builders.  Extensions can add their own
              builders.

              Important:
                 Sphinx only recognizes the -M option if it is used first, along with the source and output directories, before any other options are passed.
                 For example:

                     sphinx-build -M html ./source ./build --fail-on-warning

              The make-mode provides the same build functionality as a default Makefile or Make.bat, and provides the following additional build pipelines:

              latexpdf
                     Build  LaTeX  files  and  run  them  through  pdflatex,  or  as  per  latex_engine  <#confval-latex_engine>  setting.   If  language  <#
                     confval-language> is set to 'ja', will use automatically the platex/dvipdfmx latex to PDF pipeline.

              info   Build Texinfo files and run them through makeinfo.

              Note:
                 The default output directory locations when using make-mode differ from the defaults when using -b.

                 • doctrees are saved to <outputdir>/doctrees

                 • output files are saved to <outputdir>/<builder name>

              Added in version 1.2.1.

       -b buildername, --builder buildername
              Selects a builder.

              See Builders <> for a list of all of Sphinx's built-in builders.  Extensions can add their own builders.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --builder long option.

       -a, --write-all
              If given, always write all output files. The default is to only write output files for new and changed source files. (This may not apply to all
              builders.)

              Note:
                 This option does not re-read source files.  To read and re-process every file, use --fresh-env instead.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --write-all long option.

       -E, --fresh-env
              Don't  use  a saved environment <#term-environment> (the structure caching all cross-references), but rebuild it completely.  The default is to
              only read and parse source files that are new or have changed since the last run.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --fresh-env long option.

       -t tag, --tag tag
              Define the tag tag.  This is relevant for only <#directive-only> directives that include their content only if certain tags are set.   See  in‐
              cluding content based on tags <#tags> for further detail.

              Added in version 0.6.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --tag long option.

       -d path, --doctree-dir path
              Since  Sphinx  has  to read and parse all source files before it can write an output file, the parsed source files are cached as "doctree pick‐
              les".  Normally, these files are put in a directory called .doctrees under the build directory; with this option you  can  select  a  different
              cache directory (the doctrees can be shared between all builders).

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --doctree-dir long option.

       -j N, --jobs N
              Distribute the build over N processes in parallel, to make building on multiprocessor machines more effective.  This feature only works on sys‐
              tems  supporting  "fork". Windows is not supported.  Note that not all parts and not all builders of Sphinx can be parallelized.  If auto argu‐
              ment is given, Sphinx uses the number of CPUs as N. Defaults to 1.

              Added in version 1.2: This option should be considered experimental.

              Changed in version 1.7: Support auto argument.

              Changed in version 6.2: Add --jobs long option.

       -c path, --conf-dir path
              Don't look for the conf.py in the source directory, but use the given configuration directory instead.  Note that various other files and paths
              given by configuration values are expected to be relative to the configuration directory, so they will have to be present at this location too.

              Added in version 0.3.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --conf-dir long option.

       -C, --isolated
              Don't look for a configuration file; only take options via the --define option.

              Added in version 0.5.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --isolated long option.

       -D setting=value, --define setting=value
              Override a configuration value set in the conf.py file.  The value must be a number, string, list or dictionary value.

              For lists, you can separate elements with a comma like this: -D html_theme_path=path1,path2.

              For dictionary values, supply the setting name and key like this: -D latex_elements.docclass=scrartcl.

              For boolean values, use 0 or 1 as the value.

              Changed in version 0.6: The value can now be a dictionary value.

              Changed in version 1.3: The value can now also be a list value.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --define long option.

       -A name=value, --html-define name=value
              Make the name assigned to value in the HTML templates.

              Added in version 0.5.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --html-define long option.

       -n, --nitpicky
              Run  in  nitpicky  mode.   Currently,  this  generates  warnings  for  all  missing  references.   See  the  config  value  nitpick_ignore   <#
              confval-nitpick_ignore> for a way to exclude some references as "known missing".

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --nitpicky long option.

       -N, --no-color
              Do not emit colored output.

              Changed in version 1.6: Add --no-color long option.

       --color
              Emit colored output. Auto-detected by default.

              Added in version 1.6.

       -v, --verbose
              Increase verbosity (log-level).  This option can be given up to three times to get more debug logging output.  It implies -T.

              Added in version 1.2.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --verbose long option.

       -q, --quiet
              Do not output anything on standard output, only write warnings and errors to standard error.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --quiet long option.

       -Q, --silent
              Do not output anything on standard output, also suppress warnings.  Only errors are written to standard error.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --silent long option.

       -w file, --warning-file file
              Write warnings (and errors) to the given file, in addition to standard error.

              Changed in version 7.3: ANSI control sequences are stripped when writing to file.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --warning-file long option.

       -W, --fail-on-warning
              Turn warnings into errors.  This means that sphinx-build exits with exit status 1 if any warnings are generated during the build.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --fail-on-warning long option.

              Changed  in  version  8.1: sphinx-build no longer exits on the first warning, but instead runs the entire build and exits with exit status 1 if
              any warnings were generated.  This behaviour was previously enabled with --keep-going.

       --keep-going
              From Sphinx 8.1, --keep-going is always enabled.  Previously, it was only applicable whilst using --fail-on-warning, which  by  default  exited
              sphinx-build on the first warning.  Using --keep-going runs !sphinx-build to completion and exits with exit status 1 if errors are encountered.

              Added in version 1.8.

              Changed in version 8.1: sphinx-build no longer exits on the first warning, meaning that in effect --fail-on-warning is always enabled.  The op‐
              tion is retained for compatibility, but may be removed at some later date.

       -T, --show-traceback
              Display  the  full traceback when an unhandled exception occurs.  Otherwise, only a summary is displayed and the traceback information is saved
              to a file for further analysis.

              Added in version 1.2.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --show-traceback long option.

       -P, --pdb
              (Useful for debugging only.)  Run the Python debugger, pdb </usr/share/doc/python3-doc/html/library/pdb.html#module-pdb>, if an  unhandled  ex‐
              ception occurs while building.

              Changed in version 7.3: Add --pdb long option.

       --exception-on-warning
              Raise an exception when a warning is emitted during the build.  This can be useful in combination with --pdb to debug warnings.

              Added in version 8.1.

       -h, --help, --version
              Display usage summary or Sphinx version.

              Added in version 1.2.

       You  can  also  give one or more filenames on the command line after the source and build directories. Sphinx will then try to build only these output
       files (and their dependencies).

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The sphinx-build refers following environment variables:

       MAKE   A path to make command.  A command name is also allowed.  sphinx-build uses it to invoke sub-build process on make-mode.

       Makefile Options

       The Makefile and make.bat files created by sphinx-quickstart usually run sphinx-build only with the -b and -d options.  However, they support the fol‐
       lowing variables to customize behavior:

       PAPER  This sets the 'papersize' key of latex_elements <#confval-latex_elements>: i.e. PAPER=a4 sets it to 'a4paper' and  PAPER=letter  to  'letterpa‐
              per'.

              Note:
                 Usage  of  this  environment  variable  got broken at Sphinx 1.5 as a4 or letter ended up as option to LaTeX document in place of the needed
                 a4paper, resp. letterpaper.  Fixed at 1.7.7.

       SPHINXBUILD
              The command to use instead of sphinx-build.

       BUILDDIR
              The build directory to use instead of the one chosen in sphinx-quickstart.

       SPHINXOPTS
              Additional options for sphinx-build. These options can also be set via the shortcut variable O (capital 'o').

       NO_COLOR
              When set (regardless of value), sphinx-build  will not  use  color  in  terminal  output.  NO_COLOR  takes  precedence  over  FORCE_COLOR.  See
              no-color.org <https://no-color.org/> for other libraries supporting this community standard.

              Added in version 4.5.0.

       FORCE_COLOR
              When set (regardless of value), sphinx-build will use color in terminal output. NO_COLOR takes precedence over FORCE_COLOR.

              Added in version 4.5.0.

DEPRECATION WARNINGS
       If  any  deprecation  warning  like RemovedInSphinxXXXWarning are displayed when building a user's document, some Sphinx extension is using deprecated
       features. In that case, please report it to author of the extension.

       To disable the deprecation warnings, please set PYTHONWARNINGS= environment variable to your environment. For example:

       • PYTHONWARNINGS= make html (Linux/Mac)

       • export PYTHONWARNINGS= and do make html (Linux/Mac)

       • set PYTHONWARNINGS= and do make html (Windows)

       • modify your Makefile/make.bat and set the environment variable

SEE ALSO
       sphinx-quickstart(1)

Copyright
       2007-2025, the Sphinx developers

8.2.3                                                                    Dec 23, 2025                                                         SPHINX-BUILD(1)
