square(1)                                                                                     Scalasca Trace Tools                                                                                    square(1)

NAME
       square - Scalasca analysis report explorer

SYNOPSIS
       square [OPTIONS] (EXPERIMENT_DIR | CUBE_FILE)

DESCRIPTION
       square, the Scalasca analysis report explorer, facilitates post-processing, scoring, and interactive examination of analysis reports from both runtime summarization and tracing experiments.

       When  provided with a Score-P experiment directory EXPERIMENT_DIR, square post-processes intermediate analysis reports produced by a measurement and/or an automatic trace analysis to derive additional
       metrics and construct a hierarchy of measured and derived metrics, and then presents this final report using the Cube GUI (unless  the  -s  option  is  used).  If  intermediate  reports  were  already
       processed, the final report is shown immediately. If there is more than one analysis report in a Score-P experiment directory, the most comprehensive report is shown by default.

       When provided with the name of a specific analysis report CUBE_FILE, post-processing is skipped and the corresponding report is shown immediately.

       Analysis  report  examination  can  only  be  done  after  measurement and analysis are completed. Parallel resources are not required, and it is often more convenient to examine analysis reports on a
       different system, such as a desktop computer where interactivity is superior.

       Depending on the measurement configuration and the provided options, square places additional files into the experiment archive directory. For single-run experiments, the following files  are  created
       if the corresponding input files are available:

       · summary.cubex: post-processed runtime summary result

       · trace.cubex: post-processed trace analysis result

       In scoring mode (-s option), square generates:

       · scorep.score: detailed measurement score report, optionally suffixed with the name of a provided filter file (-f option)

       In multi-run mode, aggregated reports are created if the corresponding input files are available:

       · profile_aggr.cubex: aggregated runtime summary result

       · scout_aggr.cubex: aggregated trace analysis result

       · scout+profile.cubex: merged runtime summary and trace analysis result

       · summary_aggr.cubex: post-processed aggregated runtime summary result

       · trace_aggr.cubex: post-processed aggregated trace analysis result

       · trace+summary.cubex: post-processed merged runtime summary and trace result

OPTIONS
   Common options
       -c LEVEL
           Level  of  sanity checks for newly created reports (default: 'none'). 'quick' performs various sanity checks on the experiment meta data, while 'full' also executes a more time-consuming check for
           negative metric values (which usually indicate a serious error).

       -F  Force post-processing of analysis reports, even if a post-processed report already exists.

       -f filter_file
           Apply the specified filter file when generating a score report.

       -s  Output a textual score report. Skips launching the Cube GUI.

       -v  Enable verbose mode.

       -n  Suppress the calculation of 'Idle Threads' metric.

   Options for multi-run experiments
       -S MODE
           Set aggregation mode for runtime summarization results of each configuration. Currently supported modes are 'mean' and 'merge' (default).

       -T MODE
           Set aggregation mode for trace analysis results of each configuration. Currently supported modes are 'mean' and 'merge' (default).

       -A  Force post-processing of every individual step report of a multi-run experiment.
           WARNING: Depending on the number and size of the individual measurement reports, the time required to post-process all reports can be significant!

MULTI-RUN EXPERIMENTS
       For multi-run experiments, square provides additional options to aggregate the set of measurement results into a single Cube file. The user can choose between the two aggregation methods  'merge'  and
       'mean' to combine results from different configurations, which underneath use the corresponding CubeLib command-line tools. The default aggregation mode is to 'merge' results.

       Note:
           The  'merge'  operation  always copies metric data from the last measurement configuration in a given set in which data for a particular metric is available. This should be taken into account when
           setting up a multi-run experiment that is supposed to be aggregated using the square command later on. In particular, it is recommended to  include  a  low-overhead  measurement  without  hardware
           performance counters at the end of a measurement configuration set including hardware counter measurements in order to provide more accurate time information.

       The aggregation of multi-run measurement results happens in the following order:

       1.  Aggregate results from multiple runs for each measurement configuration. At this point, the only supported mode for this aggregation is 'mean', which is therefore hard-coded.

       2.  Aggregate averaged runtime summarization results from all configurations in ascending order using the selected mode (-S option).

       3.  Aggregate averaged trace analysis analysis results from all configurations in ascending order using the selected mode (-T option).

       4.  Merge the aggregated runtime summarization and trace analysis results into a combined report.

       5.  Post-process the combined report (step 4) if available, otherwise post-process the aggregated report(s) generated in either step 2 or step 3.

       Depending  on  the  measurement  settings,  those steps will be applied if the respective intermediate results are found. The reports of the individual runs will only be post-processed when explicitly
       requested (-A option).

EXIT STATUS
       square exits with status 0 on success, and greater than 0 if errors occur.

NOTES
       To examine an analysis report on a different system, for example, a desktop or laptop computer, it is often best to post-process the report using square's scoring  functionality  (-s  option)  on  the
       system  where  the measurement has been taken, and then copy over the resulting post-processed Cube file. This is because square requires various command-line tools and support files from the Score-P,
       CubeLib, and Scalasca Trace Tools packages, which may not be available on the target computer.

BUGS
       Please report bugs to scalasca@fz-juelich.de. Make sure to include at least the following information in your bug report:

       · The Scalasca Trace Tools version reported by 'scalasca -V'.

       · The Scalasca Trace Tools configuration reported by 'scalasca -c'.

       · The Score-P version reported by 'scorep --version'.

       · The Score-P configuration reported by 'scorep-info config-summary'.

       · The exact command line of the failing command.

       · The exact failure/error message.

EXAMPLES
       square scorep_foo_4_trace
       Post-process measurement reports in scorep_foo_4_trace and display the most comprehensive report using the Cube GUI.

       square -s -f filter scorep_foo_4_sum
       Post-process measurement reports in scorep_foo_4_sum and generate a score report with the run-time measurement filter rules from the file filter applied.

       square -S mean scorep_foo_4_multi-run_c2_r4
       Aggregate and post-process the measurement results of the multi-run experiment with two configurations and four runs per configuration stored  in  scorep_foo_4_multi-run_c2_r4.  Then,  show  the  most
       comprehensive report using the Cube GUI.

SEE ALSO
       scalasca(1), scan(1)

       The full Scalasca Trace Tools documentation is available online at https://www.scalasca.org.

Version 2.5                                                                                     Fri Mar 22 2019                                                                                       square(1)
