sreformat(1)                                                                                    Biosquid Manual                                                                                    sreformat(1)

NAME
       sreformat - convert sequence file to different format

SYNOPSIS
       sreformat [options] format seqfile

DESCRIPTION
       sreformat reads the sequence file seqfile in any supported format, reformats it into a new format specified by format, then prints the reformatted text.

       Supported input formats include (but are not limited to) the unaligned formats FASTA, Genbank, EMBL, SWISS-PROT, PIR, and GCG, and the aligned formats Stockholm, Clustal, GCG MSF, and Phylip.

       Available unaligned output file format codes include fasta (FASTA format); embl (EMBL/SWISSPROT format); genbank (Genbank format); gcg (GCG single sequence format); gcgdata (GCG flatfile database for‐
       mat); pir (PIR/CODATA flatfile format); raw (raw sequence, no other information).

       The available aligned output file format codes include stockholm (PFAM/Stockholm format); msf (GCG MSF format); a2m (an aligned  FASTA  format);  PHYLIP  (Felsenstein's  PHYLIP  format);  and  clustal
       (Clustal V/W/X format); and selex (the old SELEX/HMMER/Pfam annotated alignment format);

       All thee codes are interpreted case-insensitively (e.g. MSF, Msf, or msf all work).

       Unaligned format files cannot be reformatted to aligned formats.  However, aligned formats can be reformatted to unaligned formats -- gap characters are simply stripped out.

       This program was originally named reformat, but that name clashes with a GCG program of the same name.

OPTIONS
       -d     DNA; convert U's to T's, to make sure a nucleic acid sequence is shown as DNA not RNA. See -r.

       -h     Print brief help; includes version number and summary of all options, including expert options.

       -l     Lowercase; convert all sequence residues to lower case.  See -u.

       -n     For  DNA/RNA  sequences, converts any character that's not unambiguous RNA/DNA (e.g. ACGTU/acgtu) to an N. Used to convert IUPAC ambiguity codes to N's, for software that can't handle all IUPAC
              codes (some public RNA folding codes, for example). If the file is an alignment, gap characters are also left unchanged. If sequences are not nucleic acid sequences, this  option  will  corrupt
              the data in a predictable fashion.

       -r     RNA; convert T's to U's, to make sure a nucleic acid sequence is shown as RNA not DNA. See -d.

       -u     Uppercase; convert all sequence residues to upper case.  See -l.

       -x     For  DNA  sequences,  convert non-IUPAC characters (such as X's) to N's.  This is for compatibility with benighted people who insist on using X instead of the IUPAC ambiguity character N. (X is
              for ambiguity in an amino acid residue).

              Warning: like the -n option, the code doesn't check that you are actually giving it DNA. It simply literally just converts non-IUPAC DNA symbols to N. So if you accidentally give it protein se‐
              quence, it will happily convert most every amino acid residue to an N.

EXPERT OPTIONS
       --gapsym <c>
              Convert all gap characters to <c>.  Used to prepare alignment files for programs with strict requirements for gap symbols. Only makes sense if the input seqfile is an alignment.

       --informat <s>
              Specify  that  the  sequence  file is in format <s>, rather than allowing the program to autodetect the file format. Common examples include Genbank, EMBL, GCG, PIR, Stockholm, Clustal, MSF, or
              PHYLIP; see the printed documentation for a complete list of accepted format names.

       --mingap
              If seqfile is an alignment, remove any columns that contain 100% gap characters, minimizing the overall length of the alignment.  (Often useful if you've extracted a subset of aligned sequences
              from a larger alignment.)

       --nogap
              Remove  any  aligned  columns  that contain any gap symbols at all. Useful as a prelude to phylogenetic analyses, where you only want to analyze columns containing 100% residues, so you want to
              strip out any columns with gaps in them.  Only makes sense if the file is an alignment file.

       --pfam For SELEX alignment output format only, put the entire alignment in one block (don't wrap into multiple blocks).  This is close to the format used internally by Pfam in Stockholm and Cambridge.

       --sam  Try to convert gap characters to UC Santa Cruz SAM style, where a .  means a gap in an insert column, and a - means a deletion in a  consensus/match  column.  This  only  works  for  converting
              aligned  file formats, and only if the alignment already adheres to the SAM convention of upper case for residues in consensus/match columns, and lower case for residues in insert columns. This
              is true, for instance, of all alignments produced by old versions of HMMER. (HMMER2 produces alignments that adhere to SAM's conventions even in gap character choice.)  This option was added to
              allow Pfam alignments to be reformatted into something more suitable for profile HMM construction using the UCSC SAM software.

       --samfrac <x>
              Try  to  convert  the alignment gap characters and residue cases to UC Santa Cruz SAM style, where a .  means a gap in an insert column and a - means a deletion in a consensus/match column, and
              upper case means match/consensus residues and lower case means inserted resiudes. This will only work for converting aligned file formats, but unlike the --sam option, it will  work  regardless
              of  whether  the  file  adheres to the upper/lower case residue convention. Instead, any column containing more than a fraction <x> of gap characters is interpreted as an insert column, and all
              other columns are interpreted as match columns.  This option was added to allow Pfam alignments to be reformatted into something more suitable for profile HMM construction using  the  UCSC  SAM
              software.

       --wussify
              Convert  RNA  secondary structure annotation strings (both consensus and individual) from old "KHS" format, ><, to the new WUSS notation, <>. If the notation is already in WUSS format, this op‐
              tion will screw it up, without warning. Only SELEX and Stockholm format files have secondary structure markup at present.

       --dewuss
              Convert RNA secondary structure annotation strings from the new WUSS notation, <>, back to the old KHS format, ><. If the annotation is already in KHS, this  option  will  corrupt  it,  without
              warning.  Only SELEX and Stockholm format files have secondary structure markup.

SEE ALSO
       afetch(1), alistat(1), compalign(1), compstruct(1), revcomp(1), seqsplit(1), seqstat(1), sfetch(1), shuffle(1), sindex(1), stranslate(1), weight(1).

AUTHOR
       Biosquid  and  its  documentation are Copyright (C) 1992-2003 HHMI/Washington University School of Medicine Freely distributed under the GNU General Public License (GPL) See COPYING in the source code
       distribution for more details, or contact me.

       Sean Eddy
       HHMI/Department of Genetics
       Washington University School of Medicine
       4444 Forest Park Blvd., Box 8510
       St Louis, MO 63108 USA
       Phone: 1-314-362-7666
       FAX  : 1-314-362-2157
       Email: eddy@genetics.wustl.edu

Biosquid 1.9g                                                                                     January 2003                                                                                     sreformat(1)
