SREVIEW-CUT(1p)                                                                     User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                     SREVIEW-CUT(1p)

NAME
       sreview-cut - cut a talk out of the raw recording data

SYNOPSIS
       sreview-cut TALKID

DESCRIPTION
       "sreview-cut" performs the following actions:

       •   Look up the talk with id TALKID in the database

       •   From  the  raw  files,  extract  the  amount  of video that, according to the schedule, is part of the talk of which the event was given as the main video (with adjustments as specified by the
           reviewer, if any, applied).

       •   Extract the 20 minutes just before and the 20 minuts just after the main video into the pre and post videos.

       •   Apply A/V sync correction values if any exist.

       •   Perform audio normalization, if enabled in the configuration

       •   Extract sample videos from all three channels into preview audio streams, if enabled in the configuration

       •   Move the talk to the next state.

       sreview-cut will never re-encode the original video, and will re-encode the original audio of the main video at most once, after audio normalization if that was enabled in the configuration.

       Any re-transcodes should be performed by "sreview-transcode" (for production) and/or "sreview-previews" (for review previews)

CONFIGURATION
       "sreview-cut" considers the following configuration values:

       workdir
           The location where any temporary files are stored. Defaults to "/tmp", but can be overridden if necessary. These temporary files are removed when "sreview-cut" finishes.

       dbistring
           The DBI string used to connect to the database.

       audio_multiplex_mode
           The way in which the primary and backup audio channels are encoded in the video. Can be one of:

           stereo
               The primary audio is in the left channel, and the backup audio is in the right channel.

           stream
               The primary audio is in the first audio stream (a mono stream), and the backup audio is in the second audio stream (also a mono stream).

           none
               There is only one audio stream, and if it is a stereo channel then the right channel is not the backup audio.

       inputglob
           The location of the (raw) input files. These files should have been put into the database by way of "sreview-detect"

       pubdir
           The location of the intermediate files that are published to reviewers.

       accessmethods
           The SReview::Files implementation used to access the input files and/or the intermediate files.

SEE ALSO
       sreview-transcode, sreview-previews, sreview-skip, sreview-config

perl v5.40.1                                                                                     2025-02-17                                                                                 SREVIEW-CUT(1p)
