SSF2XML(1)                                                                                BSD General Commands Manual                                                                                SSF2XML(1)

NAME
     ssf2xml — BioWare SSF to XML converter

SYNOPSIS
     ssf2xml [options] input_file [output_file]

DESCRIPTION
     ssf2xml converts BioWare's SSF files into human-readable XML.  SSF are “sound sets”, a list of voice lines uttered at certain situations, like attacking, getting hurt or picking a lock.  Each line con‐
     sists of an ID (denoting the position of the line within the SSF file), an optional StrRef (refering a textual line in a talk table) and an optional filename (which is the sound file to play).  Addi‐
     tionally, each line may have a label attached which shows what the purpose of this line is. This label is purely for the benefit of the user reading the XML file and is not actually stored within the
     SSF.

     SSF files are used in Neverwinter Nights, Neverwinter Nights 2, Knights of the Old Republic and Knights of the Old Republic II.  However, the version of the format used in the latter two do not store
     any sound filenames, only StrRefs.

OPTIONS
     -h
     --help
           Show a help text and exit.
     --version
           Show version information and exit.
     input_file
         The SSF file to convert.
     output_file
         The XML file will be written there.  If no output file is specified, the XML data is written to stdout.  The encoding of the XML stream is always UTF-8.

EXAMPLES
     Convert the SSF file1.ssf into an XML file:

           $ ssf2xml file1.ssf file2.xml

     Convert the SSF file1.ssf into an XML file on stdout:

           $ ssf2xml file1.ssf

SEE ALSO
     gff2xml(1), tlk2xml(1), xml2ssf(1)

     More information about the xoreos project can be found on its website: https://xoreos.org/

AUTHORS
     This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.  Please see the AUTHORS file for details.

BSD                                                                                              April 15, 2016                                                                                             BSD
