STAP-SERVER(8)                                                                              System Manager's Manual                                                                              STAP-SERVER(8)

NAME
       stap-server - systemtap compile server management

SYNOPSIS
       [ service ] stap-server { start | stop | restart | condrestart | try-restart | force-reload | status } [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       A  systemtap compile server listens for connections from stap clients on a secure SSL network port and accepts requests to run the stap front end. Each server advertises its presence and configuration
       on the local network using mDNS (avahi) allowing for automatic detection by clients.

       The stap-server script aims to provide:

       ·   management of systemtap compile servers as a service.

       ·   convenient control over configured servers and individual (ad-hoc) servers.

ARGUMENTS
       One of the actions below must be specified:

       start  Start servers. The specified servers are started.  If no server is specified, the configured servers are started. If no servers are configured, a server for the kernel release and  architecture
              of the host is started.  If a specified server is already started, this action will be ignored for that server. If a server fails to start, this action fails.

       stop   Stop  server(s).  The specified servers are stopped.  If no server is specified, all currently running servers are stopped.  If a specified server is not running, this action will be successful
              for that server. If a server fails to stop, this action fails.

       restart
              Stop and restart servers. The specified servers are stopped and restarted.  If no server is specified, all currently running servers are stopped and restarted. If no servers are  running,  this
              action behaves like start.

       condrestart
              Stop and restart servers. The specified servers are stopped and restarted.  If a specified server is not running, it is not started. If no server is specified, all currently running servers are
              stopped and restarted.  If no servers are running, none will be started.

       try-restart
              This action is identical to condrestart.

       force-reload
              Stop all running servers, reload config files and restart the service as if start was specified.

       status Print information about running servers. Information about the specified server(s) will be printed. If no server is specified, information about all running servers will be printed.

OPTIONS
       The following options are used to provide additional configuration and to specify servers to be managed:

       -c configfile
              This option specifies a global configuration file in addition to the default global configuration file described below. This file will be processed after the default global configuration  file.
              If the -c option is specified more than once, the last configuration file specified will be used.

       -a architecture
              This  option  specifies the target architecture of the server and is analogous to the -a option of stap. See the stap(1) manual page for more details.  The default architecture is the architec‐
              ture of the host.

       -r kernel-release
              This option specifies a target kernel release of the server and is analogous to the -r option of stap.  See the stap(1) manual page for more details.  The default release is that  of  the  cur‐
              rently running kernel.  A server can handle multiple releases by specifying multiple -r flags.

       -I path
              This option specifies an additional path to be searched by the server(s) for tapsets and is analogous to the -I option of stap.  See the stap(1) manual page for more details.

       -R path
              This option specifies the location of the systemtap runtime to be used by the server(s) and is analogous to the -R option of stap.  See the stap(1) manual page for more details.

       -B options
              This option specifies options to be passed to make when building systemtap modules and is analogous to the -B option of stap.  See the stap(1) manual page for more details.

       -i     This option is a shortcut which specifies a server that handles every release installed in /lib/modules/.

       -n nickname
              This  option allows the specification of a server configuration by nickname.  When -n is specified, a currently running server with the given nickname will be searched for. If no currently run‐
              ning server with the given nickname is found, a server configuration with the given nickname will be searched for in the configuration files for default servers, or the path configured  in  the
              global  configuration file or the configuration file specified by the -c option. If a server configuration for the given nickname is found, the -a, -r, -I, -R, -B and -u options for that server
              will be used as if they were specified on the command line. If no configuration with the given nickname is found, and the action is start (or an action behaving like start (see ARGUMENTS),  the
              server will be started with the given nickname.  If no configuration with the given nickname is found, and the action is not start (or an action behaving like start), it is an error. If a nick‐
              name is not specified for a server which is being started, its nickname will be its process id.

       -p pid This option allows the specification of a server configuration by process id.  When -p is specified, a currently running server with the given process id will be searched for. If no such server
              is found, it is an error. If a server with the given process id is found, the -a, -r, -I, -R, -B and -u options for that server will be used as if they were specified on the command line.

       -u user-name
              Each  systemtap compile server is normally run by the user name stap-server (for the initscript) or as the user invoking stap-server, unless otherwise configured (see FILES). This option speci‐
              fies the user name used to run the server(s). The user name specified must be a member of the group stap-server.

       --log logfile
              This option allows the specification of a separate log file for each server.  Each --log option is added to a list which will be applied, in turn, to each server specified. If more servers  are
              specified than --log options, the default log file (see FILES) will be used for subsequent servers.

       --port port-number
              This  option allows the specification of a specific network port for each server. Each --port option is added to a list which will be applied, in turn, to each server specified. If more servers
              are specified than --port options, a randomly selected port is used for subsequent servers.

       --ssl certificate-db-path
              This option allows the specification of a separate NSS certificate database for each server. Each --ssl option is added to a list which will be applied, in turn, to each  server  specified.  If
              more servers are specified than --ssl options, the default certificate database (see FILES) for subsequent servers.

       --max-threads threads
              This  option  allows  the  specification  of the maximum number of worker threads to handle concurrent requests. If threads == 0, each request will be handled on the main thread, serially.  The
              default is the number of available processor cores.

       --max-request-size size
              This options allows the specification of the maximum size of an uncompressed client request. The arguement size is specified in bytes. The default is the 50000 bytes.

       --max-compressed-request size
              This options allows the specification of the maximum size of a compressed client request. The arguement size is specified in bytes. The default is the 5000 bytes.

CONFIGURATION
       Configuration files allow us to:

       ·   specify global configuration of logging, server configuration files, status files and other global parameters.

       ·   specify which servers are to be started by default.

Global Configuration
       The Global Configuration file contains variable assignments used to configure the overall operation of the service.  Each line beginning with a '#' character is ignored. All other lines must be of the
       form VARIABLE=VALUE. This is not a shell script. The entire contents of the line after the = will be assigned as-is to the variable.

       The following variables may be assigned:

       CONFIG_PATH
              Specifies the absolute path of the directory containing the default server configurations.

       STAT_PATH
              Specifies the absolute path of the running server status directory.

       LOG_FILE
              Specifies the absolute path of the log file.

       STAP_USER
              Specifies the userid which will be used to run the server(s) (default: for the initscript stap-server, otherwise the user running stap-server).

       Here is an example of a Global Configuration file:

              CONFIG_PATH=~<user>/my-stap-server-configs
              LOG_FILE=/tmp/stap-server/log

Individual Server Configuration
       Each  server configuration file configures a server to be started when no server is specified for the start action, or an action behaving like the start action (see ARGUMENTS). Each configuration file
       contains variable assignments used to configure an individual server.

       Each line beginning with a '#' character is ignored. All other lines must be of the form VARIABLE=VALUE. This is not a shell script. The entire contents of the line after the = will be assigned  as-is
       to the variable.

       Each  configuration file must have a filename suffix of .conf. See stappaths(7) for the default location of these files.  This default location can be overridden in the global configuration file using
       the -c option (see OPTIONS).

       The following variables may be assigned:

       ARCH   Specifies the target architecture for this server and corresponds to the -a option (see OPTIONS). If ARCH is not set, the architecture of the host will be used.

       RELEASE
              Specifies a kernel release for this server and corresponds to the -r option (see OPTIONS). If RELEASE is not set, the release of the kernel running on the host will be used.

       BUILD  Specifies options to be passed to the make process used by systemtap to build kernel modules.  This an array variable with each element corresponding to a -B option  (see  OPTIONS).  Using  the
              form BUILD=STRING clears the array and sets the first element to STRING. Using the form BUILD+=STRING adds STRING as an additional element to the array.

       INCLUDE
              Specifies  a  list  of directories to be searched by the server for tapsets.  This is an array variable with each element corresponding to a -I option (see OPTIONS). Using the form INCLUDE=PATH
              clears the array and sets the first element to PATH. Using the form INCLUDE+=PATH adds PATH as an additional element to the array.

       RUNTIME
              Specifies the directory which contains the systemtap runtime code to be used by this server and corresponds to the -R option (see OPTIONS).

       USER   Specifies the user name to be used to run this server and corresponds to the -u option (see OPTIONS).

       NICKNAME
              Specifies the nickname to be used to refer to this server and corresponds to the -n option (see OPTIONS).

       LOG    Specifies the location of the log file to be used by this server and corresponds to the --log option (see OPTIONS).

       PORT   Specifies the network port to be used by this server and corresponds to the --port option (see OPTIONS).

       SSL    Specifies the location of the NSS certificate database to be used by this server and corresponds to the --ssl option (see OPTIONS).

       MAXTHREADS
              Specifies the maximum number of worker threads to handle concurrent requests to be used by this server and corresponds to the --max-threads option (see OPTIONS).

       MAXREQSIZE
              Specifies the maximum size of an uncompressed client request, to be used by this server and correspnds to the  --max-request-size option (see OPTIONS).

       MAXCOMPRESSEDREQ
              Specifies the maximum size of an compressed client request, to be used by this server and correspnds to the  --max-compressed-request option (see OPTIONS).

       Here is an example of a server configuration file:

              ARCH=
              USER=
              RELEASE=
              NICKNAME=native

       By keeping the ARCH, USER, and RELEASE fields blank, they will default to the current arch and release and use the default user.

       A more specific example:

              ARCH=i386
              RELEASE=2.6.18-128.el5
              PORT=5001
              LOG=/path/to/log/file

       And here is a more complicated example:

              USER=serveruser
              RELEASE=/kernels/2.6.18-92.1.18.el5/build
              INCLUDE=/mytapsets
              INCLUDE+=/yourtapsets
              BUILD='VARIABLE1=VALUE1 VARIABLE2=VALUE2'
              DEFINE=STP_MAXMEMORY=1024
              DEFINE+=DEBUG_TRANS
              RUNTIME=/myruntime
              NICKNAME=my-server
              SSL=/path/to/NSS/certificate/database

SERVER AUTHENTICATION
       The security of the SSL network connection between the client and server depends on the proper management of server certificates.

       The trustworthiness of a given systemtap compile server can not be determined automatically without a trusted certificate authority issuing systemtap compile server certificates. This is not practical
       in  everyday  use  and  so, clients must authenticate servers against their own database of trusted server certificates. In this context, establishing a given server as trusted by a given client means
       adding that server's certificate to the client's database of trusted servers.

       For the stap-server initscript, on the local host, this is handled automatically.  When the systemtap-server package is installed, the server's certificate for the default user (stap-server) is  auto‐
       matically generated and installed. This means that servers started by the stap-server initscript, with the default user, are automatically trusted by clients on the local host, both as an SSL peer and
       as a systemtap module signer.

       Furthermore, when stap is invoked by an unprivileged user (not root, not a member of the group stapdev, but a member of the group stapusr and possibly the group stapsys), the options --use-server  and
       --privilege are automatically added to the specified options.  This means that unprivileged users on the local host can use a server on the local host in unprivileged mode with no further setup or op‐
       tions required. Normal users (those in none of the SystemTap groups) can also use compile-servers through the --use-server and --privilege options. But they will of course be unable to load the module
       (the -p4 option can be used to stop short of loading).

       In  order  to  use  a  server running on another host, that server's certificate must be installed on the client's host.  See the --trust-servers option in the stap(1) manual page for more details and
       README.unprivileged in the systemtap sources for more details.

EXAMPLES
       See the stapex(3stap) manual page for a collection of sample systemtap scripts.

       To start the configured servers, or the default server, if none are configured:

        $ [ service ] stap-server start

       To start a server that handles all kernel versions installed in /lib/modules:

        $ [ service ] stap-server start -i

       To obtain information about the running server(s):

        $ [ service ] stap-server status

       To start a server like another one, except targeting a different architecture, by referencing the first server's nickname:

        $ [ service ] stap-server start -n NICKNAME -a ARCH

       To start a server for a kernel release not installed (cross-compiling)

        $ [ service ] stap-server start -a ARCH -r /BUILDDIR

       To stop one of the servers by referencing its process id (obtained by running stap-server status):

        $ [ service ] stap-server stop -p PID

       To run a script using a compile server:

        $ stap SCRIPT --use-server

       To run a script as an unprivileged user using a compile server:

        $ stap SCRIPT

       To stop all running servers:

        $ [ service ] stap-server stop

       To restart servers after a global configuration change and/or when default servers have been added, changed, or removed:

        $ [ service ] stap-server force-reload

SAFETY AND SECURITY
       Systemtap is an administrative tool.  It exposes kernel internal data structures and potentially private user information.  See the stap(1) manual page for additional information on safety and securi‐
       ty.

       As a network server, stap-server should be activated with care in order to limit the potential effects of bugs or mischevious users.  Consider the following prophylactic measures.

       1      Run stap-server as an unprivileged user, never as root.

              When invoked as a service (i.e. service stap-server ...), each server is run, by default, as the user stap-server.  When invoked directly (i.e. stap-server ...), each server is run, by default,
              as the invoking user. In each case, another user may be selected by using the -u option on invocation, by specifying STAP_USER=username in the global configuration file  or  by  specifying  US‐
              ER=username in an individual server configuration file. The invoking user must have authority to run processes as another user.  See CONFIGURATION.

              The  selected  user must have write access to the server log file.  The location of the server log file may be changed by setting LOG_FILE=path in the global configuration file.  See CONFIGURA‐
              TION.

              The selected user must have read/write access to the directory containing the server status files.  The location of the server status files may be changed by setting STAT_PATH=path in the glob‐
              al configuration file.  See CONFIGURATION.

              The selected user must have read/write access to the uprobes.ko build directory and its files.

              Neither form of stap-server will run if the selected user is root.

       2      Run stap-server requests with resource limits that impose maximum cpu time, file size, memory consumption, in order to bound the effects of processing excessively large or bogus inputs.

              When the user running the server is stap-server, each server request is run with limits specified in ~stap-server/.systemtap/rc otherwise, no limits are imposed.

       3      Run stap-server with a TMPDIR environment variable that points to a separate and/or quota-enforced directory, in order to prevent filling up of important filesystems.

              The default TMPDIR is /tmp/.

       4      Activate network firewalls to limit stap client connections to relatively trustworthy networks.

              For automatic selection of servers by clients, avahi must be installed on both the server and client hosts and mDNS messages must be allowed through the firewall.

       The systemtap compile server and its related utilities use the Secure Socket Layer (SSL) as implemented by Network Security Services (NSS) for network security. NSS is also used for the generation and
       management of certificates. The related certificate databases must be protected in order to maintain the security of the system.  Use of the utilities provided will help to ensure that the proper pro‐
       tection is maintained. The systemtap client will check for proper access permissions before making use of any certificate database.

FILES
       Important files and their corresponding paths can be located in the
              stappaths (7) manual page.

SEE ALSO
       stap(1),
       staprun(8),
       stapprobes(3stap),
       stappaths(7),
       stapex(3stap),
       avahi,
       ulimit(1),
       NSS

BUGS
       Use the Bugzilla link of the project web page or our mailing list.  http://sourceware.org/systemtap/, <systemtap@sourceware.org>.

                                                                                                                                                                                                 STAP-SERVER(8)
