STDSYSLOG(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                             STDSYSLOG(1)

NAME
       stdsyslog — log a program's output to the system log

SYNOPSIS
       stdsyslog [-d fd:level] [-f facility] [-p pidfile] cmd [args...]
       stdsyslog -f list
       stdsyslog -l
       stdsyslog -V | -h

DESCRIPTION
       The stdsyslog utility executes a program, reads everything that it outputs to a set of file descriptors (by default the standard output and standard error streams) and logs it to the system log.

       The stdsyslog utility may be passed the following options:

       -d      Specify the level for messages on a file descriptor; may (and probably should) be used more than once.  If no -d options are specified, stdsyslog will assume “-d 1:info -d 2:err”, i.e. log
               the program's standard output using the “info” level and the errors using the “err” one.

       -f      Specify the syslog facility to use, or “list” for a list of the available values.  If not specified, stdsyslog will use the “daemon” facility.

       -h      Display program usage information and exit.

       -l      List the available syslog levels.

       -p      Specify the file to write the child process ID to.

       -V      Display program version information and exit.

EXAMPLES
       The following examples are shown as given to the shell.

       Log the string “information” to the “daemon:info” syslog facility:

             stdsyslog echo information

       Log the string “error” to the “local4:err” facility:

             stdsyslog -f local4 sh -c 'echo error 1>&2'

       Run  the  “sprog” program with two arguments, “some” and “args”, store its process ID into the sprog.pid file and log the messages appearing on its standard output to “daemon:info” and the ones on
       its standard error stream to “daemon:crit”:

             stdsyslog -p sprog.pid -d 1:info -d 2:crit sprog some args

SEE ALSO
       logger(1), syslog(3)

TODO
       Planned or at least possible enhancements:

       *  Command-line flags to specify openlog(3) options.

       *  Command-line flags to specify patterns for text appearing on some file descriptors for possibly logging with another priority, e.g.  lines appearing on the standard error stream  starting  with
          “DBG:” should be logged with the debug priority.

Debian                                                                                        February 8, 2013                                                                                 STDSYSLOG(1)
