STEGSNOW(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               STEGSNOW(1)

NAME
       stegsnow - whitespace steganography program

SYNOPSIS
       stegsnow [ -CQS ] [ -h | --help ] [ -V | --version ] [ -p passwd ] [ -l line-len ] [ -f file | -m message ] [ infile [ outfile ]]

DESCRIPTION
       stegsnow  is  a  program for concealing messages in text files by appending tabs and spaces on the end of lines, and for extracting messages from files containing hidden messages.  Tabs and spaces
       are invisible to most text viewers, hence the steganographic nature of this encoding scheme.

       The data is concealed in the text file by appending sequences of up to 7 spaces, interspersed with tabs. This usually allows 3 bits to be stored every 8 columns. An  alternative  encoding  scheme,
       using alternating spaces and tabs to represent zeroes and ones, was rejected because, although it used fewer bytes, it required more columns per bit (4.5 vs 2.67).

       The start of the data is indicated by an appended tab character, which allows the insertion of mail and news headers without corrupting the data.

       stegsnow  provides  rudimentary compression, using Huffman tables optimised for English text. However, if the data is not text, or if there is a lot of data, the use of the built-in compression is
       not recommended, since an external compression program such as compress or gzip will do a much better job.

       Encryption is also provided, using the ICE encryption algorithm in 1-bit cipher-feedback (CFB) mode. Because of ICE's arbitrary key size, passwords of any length up to  1170  characters  are  sup‐
       ported (since only 7 bits of each character are used, keys up to 1024-bytes are supported).

       If a message string or message file are specified on the command-line, stegsnow will attempt to conceal the message in the file infile if specified, or standard input otherwise. The resulting file
       will be written to outfile if specified, or standard output if not.

       If no message string is provided, stegsnow attempts to extract a message from the input file. The result is written to the output file or standard output.

OPTIONS
       -C     Compress the data if concealing, or uncompress it if extracting.

       -f message-file
              The contents of this file will be concealed in the input text file.

       -l line-len
              When appending whitespace, stegsnow will always produce lines shorter than this value. By default it is set to 80.

       -m message-string
              The  contents  of this string will be concealed in the input text file.  Note that, unless a newline is somehow included in the string, a newline will not be printed when the message is ex‐
              tracted.

       -p password
              If this is set, the data will be encrypted with this password during concealment, or decrypted during extraction.

       -Q     Quiet mode. If not set, the program reports statistics such as compression percentages and amount of available storage space used.

       -S     Report on the approximate amount of space available for hidden message in the text file. Line length is taken into account, but other options are ignored.

       -V, --version
              Display usage information and exit.

       -h, --help
              Display usage information and exit.

EXAMPLES
       The following command will conceal the message "I am lying" in the file infile, with compression, and encrypted with the password "hello world". The resulting text will be stored in outfile.

              stegsnow -C -m "I am lying" -p "hello world" infile outfile

       To extract the message, the command would be

              stegsnow -C -p "hello world" outfile

       Note that the resulting message will not be terminated by a newline.

       To prevent line wrap if text with concealed whitespace is likely to be indented by mail or news readers, a line length of 72 or less can be used.

              stegsnow -C -l 72 -m "I am lying" infile outfile

       The approximate storage capacity of a file can be determined with the -S option.

              stegsnow -S -l 72 infile

AUTHOR
       This application was written by Matthew Kwan, who can be reached at mkwan@darkside.com.au

SEE ALSO
       ice_key_create(3)

Version 1.1                                                                                     28 Dec 1996                                                                                     STEGSNOW(1)
