STOCKFISH(6)                                                                                                                                                                                   STOCKFISH(6)

NAME
       stockfish - free UCI chess engine, to calculate chess moves

SYNOPSIS
       stockfish

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents the stockfish command.

       stockfish is an UCI chess engine, to calculate chess moves

       Stockfish  is  a free UCI chess engine derived from Glaurung 2.1. It is not a complete chess program, but requires some UCI compatible GUI (like XBoard with PolyGlot, eboard, Jose, Arena, in order
       to be used comfortably.  Read the documentation for your GUI of choice for information about how to use Stockfish with your GUI.

       This version of Stockfish supports up to 8 CPUs, but has not been tested thoroughly with more than 2.  The program tries to detect the number of CPUs on your computer and set the number of  search
       threads  accordingly, but please be aware that the detection is not always correct.  It is therefore recommended to inspect the value of the "Threads" UCI parameter, and to make sure it equals the
       number of CPU cores on your computer. If you are using more than four threads, it is recommended to raise the value of "Minimum Split Depth" UCI parameter to 6.

       Opening book

       This version of stockfish has experimental support for PolyGlot opening books.  For information about how to create such books, consult the PolyGlot documentation.

OPTIONS
       This program does NOT follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes.

SEE ALSO
       Communication with UCI commands is documented by "The UCI Communication Protocol" in /usr/share/doc/stockfish/engine-interface.txt.

AUTHOR
       stockfish was written by <Romstad Tord <tord@glaurungchess.com>> and Marco Costalba <mcostalba@gmail.com>.

       This manual page was written by Oliver Korff <ok@xynyx.de>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

                                                                                             October  10, 2009                                                                                 STOCKFISH(6)
