stoken-gui(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               stoken-gui(1)

NAME
       stoken-gui - GTK+ software token

SYNOPSIS
       stoken-gui [opts]

DESCRIPTION
       stoken-gui is a software token compatible with RSA SecurID 128-bit (AES) tokens.  The graphical user interface provides limited support for password entry and viewing the current token.  Initial token
       importation and other configuration items are handled through the command-line interface, stoken(1).

       After using stoken import to populate ~/.stokenrc, stoken-gui may be invoked to display the tokencode and counter.  The tokencode changes once a minute; stoken-gui may be left running forever and will
       copy the current tokencode to the clipboard on demand.

       If a password and/or PIN is required, stoken-gui will pop up a dialog box requesting the appropriate information.

OPTIONS
       --small
              Show a minimal window that only displays a tokencode and a progress bar.  Clicking on the tokencode copies it to the clipboard.

       --rcfile=file
              Use an alternate .stokenrc file.  This is typically used to support multiple tokens on the same user account.

       --password=password, -p password
              Use a password supplied from the command line, instead of prompting the user.  See notes in SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS on the stoken(1) man page.

       --pin=pin, -n pin
              Use a PIN supplied from the command line, instead of prompting the user.  See notes in SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS on the stoken(1) man page.

       --force, -f
              Override token expiration date check.

       --file=file
              Use a token from file instead of the .stokenrc file.  For testing purposes only.

       --token=token_string
              Use a token from the command line instead of the .stokenrc file.  See above notes on --file.

       --random
              Generate a random token on the fly.  Used for testing or demonstrations only.  These tokens should not be used for real authentication.

       --help, -h
              Display basic usage information.

       --version, -v
              Display version information.

SEE ALSO
       stoken(1).

FILES
       ~/.stokenrc
              Default configuration file.

AUTHOR
       Kevin Cernekee <cernekee@gmail.com>

                                                                                                   2012-09-09                                                                                     stoken-gui(1)
