storymaps(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                              storymaps(1)

NAME
       storymaps — free story planning and writing application for children

SYNOPSIS
       storymaps

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the storymaps command.

       This manual page was written for the Debian distribution because the original program does not have a manual page.

       storymaps  is  a  free  story planning and writing application for children that works in many different operating systems. It was written by Sean Hammond as part of his PhD. The author and worked
       with teachers, children, creative writing experts and an illustrator to design and evaluate it.

       StoryMaps breaks down the elements of traditional fairy tales into building blocks which children can use to invent new stories. With StoryMaps children can create stories that contain  their  own
       original ideas while being structurally complete and well-formed. The goal of the program is that StoryMaps will give children a powerful mental model for understanding stories and their construc‐
       tion.  School  trials of StoryMaps found that through using the application children were able to grasp abstract narrative concepts and apply them to their own writing, and that the experience im‐
       proved the narrative structure of children's stories.

USAGE
       When the program starts, the Planning View is shown.  In this view, the user os presented with a collection of story cards to choose from in the green area at the top. You can  inspect  each  card
       more  closely  by moving the mouse cursor over a card to see it in more detail. You drag-and-drop the story cards that you want to use and arrange them into a story map in the grey area below. You
       can enter a title for your story in the toolbar at the bottom of the window.

       The story cards are based on plot functions from Vladimir Propp's study of traditional Russian fairy tales, Morphology of the Folktale. They were illustrated by designer  and  illustrator  Raymond
       Yuen.

       Move the mouse pointer over a story card to see it in more detail, and open the story editor to see even more detail about the story cards.

       Clicking  on  the Write your Story! button brings up the story editor. With your story map in view above, you use the text editor below to enter the text for your story. You have to fill in a part
       of your story for each story card in your story map. If you change your mind about one of the cards in your story map, you can go back to the planning view at any time by clicking the Go  back  to
       planning    button.

       You can save your story map to file and open a saved story map to continue working on it later.  When you've finished writing you can preview your story and export it to HTML, or print it.

       StoryMaps  automatically  saves  your  story as you work on it. You'll find automatically saved stories in the StoryMaps folder in your home directory (on Linux) or in your My Documents folder (on
       Windows). You can open automatically saved stories using the Open a Saved Story button in the File menu in the StoryMaps window.

SEE ALSO
       This program is documented fully in the Storymaps web page , avilable at http://seanh.sdfeu.org/storymaps/.

       You can read more about StoryMaps, the ideas behind it and how it was developed and evaluated with teachers and children in these publications:

          •  Children's Story Authoring with Propp's Morphology, Sean Hammond, PhD thesis, The University of Edinburgh 2010

          •  Children's Story Authoring with Propp's Morphology: An Exploratory Study, Sean Hammond, Tim J. Smith and Helen Pain, 5th International Conference on Narrative and Interactive Learning  Envi‐
             ronments, Edinburgh, 6th-8th August 2008

          •  Player Agency in Interactive Narrative: Audience, Actor & Author, Sean Hammond, Helen Pain and Tim J. Smith, Artificial and Ambient Intelligence, AISB Annual Convention, 2-4 April 2007, Cul‐
             ture Lab Newcastle University

AUTHOR
       Storymaps is Copyright: (c) 2007-2012 Sean Hammond seanhammond@seanh.cc.

       The images for the story cards have been done by Ray Yuen hello@rayuen.com. You can find more information about him in his website at http://rayuen.com

       This manual page was written by Javier Fernandez-Sanguino jfs@debian.org for the Debian system (but may be used by others).

       For full licensing and copyright details please see /usr/share/doc/storymaps/copyright.

                                                                                                                                                                                               storymaps(1)
