STRATO(1)                                                                                                                                           STRATO(1)

NAME
       strato - Dump and analyze system calls and event logs

SYNOPSIS
       strato [ -i <capture source>|- ] [ -f <capture filter> ] [ -2 ] [ -r <infile> ] [ -w <outfile>|- ] [ options ] [ <filter> ]

       strato -h|--help

       strato -v|--version

DESCRIPTION
       strato is a system call and log analyzer. It lets you capture system call and log events from a live source, or read events from a previously saved
       capture file, either printing a decoded form of those events to the standard output or writing the packets to a file. strato's native capture file
       format is scap format, which is also the format used by Stratoshark, Falco, sysdig and various other tools.

       Without any options set, strato will work much like sysdig. It will use the libscap and libsinsp to capture traffic from the first available source
       and displays a summary line on the standard output for each received packet.

       When run with the -r option, specifying a capture file from which to read, strato will again work much like sysdig, reading packets from the file and
       displaying a summary line on the standard output for each packet read. strato is able to detect, read and write the same capture files that are
       supported by Stratoshark. The input file doesn’t need a specific filename extension; the file format and an optional gzip, Zstandard, or LZ4
       compression will be automatically detected. Near the beginning of the DESCRIPTION section of wireshark(1) or
       https://www.wireshark.org/docs/man-pages/wireshark.html is a detailed description of the way Wireshark handles this, which is the same way strato
       handles this.

       Compressed file support uses (and therefore requires) the zlib library. If the zlib library is not present when compiling strato, it will be possible
       to compile it, but the resulting program will be unable to read compressed files. Similarly, LZ4 and ZStandard also require their respective
       libraries.

       When displaying events on the standard output, strato writes, by default, a summary line containing the fields specified by the preferences file
       (which are also the fields displayed in the packet list pane in Wireshark), although if it’s writing packets as it captures them, rather than writing
       packets from a saved capture file, it won’t show the "frame number" field. If the -V option is specified, it instead writes a view of the details of
       the packet, showing all the fields of all protocols in the packet. If the -O option is specified, it will only show the full details for the protocols
       specified, and show only the top-level detail line for all other protocols. Use the output of "strato -G protocols" to find the abbreviations of the
       protocols you can specify. If the -P option is specified with either the -V or -O options, both the summary line for the entire packet and the details
       will be displayed.

       Packet capturing is performed with the pcap library. That library supports specifying a filter expression; packets that don’t match that filter are
       discarded. The -f option is used to specify a capture filter. The syntax of a capture filter is defined by the pcap library; this syntax is different
       from the display filter syntax described below, and the filtering mechanism is limited in its abilities.

       Display filters in strato, which allow you to select which packets are to be decoded or written to a file, are very powerful; more fields are
       filterable in strato than in other protocol analyzers, and the syntax you can use to create your filters is richer. As strato progresses, expect more
       and more protocol fields to be allowed in display filters. Display filters use the same syntax as display and color filters in Wireshark; a display
       filter is specified with the -Y option.

       Display filters can be specified when capturing or when reading from a capture file. Note that capture filters are much more efficient than display
       filters, and it may be more difficult for strato to keep up with a busy network if a display filter is specified for a live capture, so you might be
       more likely to lose packets if you’re using a display filter.

       A capture or display filter can either be specified with the -f or -Y option, respectively, in which case the entire filter expression must be
       specified as a single argument (which means that if it contains spaces, it must be quoted), or can be specified with command-line arguments after the
       option arguments, in which case all the arguments after the filter arguments are treated as a filter expression. If the filter is specified with
       command-line arguments after the option arguments, it’s a capture filter if a capture is being done (i.e., if no -r option was specified) and a
       display filter if a capture file is being read (i.e., if a -r option was specified).

       If the -w option is specified when capturing packets or reading from a capture file, strato does not display packets on the standard output. Instead,
       it writes the packets to a capture file with the name specified by the -w option. Note that display filters are currently not supported when capturing
       and saving the captured packets.

       If you want to write the decoded form of packets to a file, run strato without the -w option, and redirect its standard output to the file (do not use
       the -w option).

       If you want the packets to be displayed to the standard output and also saved to a file, specify the -P option in addition to the -w option to have
       the summary line displayed, specify the -V option in addition to the -w option to have the details of the packet displayed, and specify the -O option,
       with a list of protocols, to have the full details of the specified protocols and the top-level detail line for all other protocols to be displayed.
       If the -P option is used together with the -V or -O option, the summary line will be displayed along with the detail lines.

       When writing packets to a file, strato, by default, writes the file in pcapng format, and writes all of the packets it sees to the output file. The -F
       option can be used to specify the format in which to write the file. The list of available file formats is displayed by the -F option without a value.
       However, for a live capture, you can only specify a file format supported by dumpcap(1), viz. pcapng or pcap. The --compress option can be used to
       specify a compression method as well; the list of supported compression methods for writing can be displayed by the --compress method without an
       argument. If the --compress option is not given, then the desired compression method, if any, is deduced from the extension of the filename given as
       argument to the -w option.

       When capturing packets, strato writes to the standard error an initial line listing the interfaces from which packets are being captured and, if
       packet information isn’t being displayed to the terminal, writes a continuous count of packets captured to the standard output. If the -q option is
       specified, neither the continuous count nor the packet information will be displayed; instead, at the end of the capture, a count of packets captured
       will be displayed. If the -Q option is specified, neither the initial line, nor the packet information, nor any packet counts will be displayed. If
       the -q or -Q option is used, the -P, -V, or -O option can be used to cause the corresponding output to be displayed even though other output is
       suppressed.

       When reading packets, the -q and -Q option will suppress the display of the packet summary or details; this would be used if -z options are specified
       in order to display statistics, so that only the statistics, not the packet information, is displayed.

       The -G option is a special mode that simply causes strato to dump one of several types of internal glossaries and then exit.

OPTIONS
       -2

           Perform a two-pass analysis. This causes strato to buffer output until the entire first pass is done, but allows it to fill in fields that require
           future knowledge, such as 'response in frame #' fields. Also permits reassembly frame dependencies to be calculated correctly. This requires the
           ability to seek backwards on the input, and as such cannot be used with live captures or when reading from a pipe or FIFO.

       -a|--autostop  <capture autostop condition>

           Specify a criterion that specifies when strato is to stop writing to a capture file. The criterion is of the form test:value, where test is one
           of:

           duration:value Stop writing to a capture file after value seconds have elapsed. Floating point values (e.g. 0.5) are allowed.

           files:value Stop writing to capture files after value number of files were written.

           filesize:value Stop writing to a capture file after it reaches a size of value kB. If this option is used together with the -b option, strato will
           stop writing to the current capture file and switch to the next one if filesize is reached. When reading a capture file, strato will stop reading
           the file after the number of bytes read exceeds this number (the complete packet  will be read, so more bytes than this number may be read). Note
           that the filesize is limited to a maximum value of 2 TB, although you might have problems before then if the number of packets exceeds exceeds 232
           (4294967296).

           packets:value switch to the next file after it contains value packets. This does not include any packets that do not pass the display filter, so
           it may differ from -c<capture packet count>.

       -A  <user>:<password>

           Specify a user and a password when strato captures from a rpcap:// interface where authentication is required.

           This option is available with libpcap with enabled remote support.

       -b|--ring-buffer  <capture ring buffer option>

           Cause strato to run in "multiple files" mode. In "multiple files" mode, strato will write to several capture files. When the first capture file
           fills up, strato will switch writing to the next file and so on.

           The created filenames are based on the filename given with the -w option, the number of the file and on the creation date and time, e.g.
           outfile_00001_20260714120117.pcap, outfile_00002_20260714120523.pcap, ...

           With the files option it’s also possible to form a "ring buffer". This will fill up new files until the number of files specified, at which point
           strato will discard the data in the first file and start writing to that file and so on. If the files option is not set, new files filled up until
           one of the capture stop conditions match (or until the disk is full).

           The criterion is of the form key:value, where key is one of:

           duration:value switch to the next file after value seconds have elapsed, even if the current file is not completely filled up. Floating point
           values (e.g. 0.5) are allowed.

           files:value begin again with the first file after value number of files were written (form a ring buffer). This value must be less than 100000.
           Caution should be used when using large numbers of files: some filesystems do not handle many files in a single directory well. The files
           criterion requires either duration, interval or filesize to be specified to control when to go to the next file. It should be noted that each -b
           parameter takes exactly one criterion; to specify two criterion, each must be preceded by the -b option.

           filesize:value switch to the next file after it reaches a size of value kB. Note that the filesize is limited to a maximum value of 2 TB, although
           you might have problems before then if the number of packets exceeds exceeds 232 (4294967296).

           interval:value switch to the next file when the time is an exact multiple of value seconds. For example, use 3600 to switch to a new file every
           hour on the hour.

           packets:value switch to the next file after it contains value packets.

           printname:filename print the name of the most recently written file to filename after the file is closed. filename can be stdout or - for standard
           output, or stderr for standard error.

           nametimenum:value Choose between two save filename templates. If value is 1, make running file number part before start time part; this is the
           original and default behaviour (e.g. log_00001_20260714164426.pcap). If value is greater than 1, make start time part before running number part
           (e.g. log_20210828164426_00001.pcap). The latter makes alphabetical sorting order equal to creation time order, and keeps related multiple file
           sets in same directory close to each other.

           Example: strato -b filesize:1000 -b files:5 results in a ring buffer of five files of size one megabyte each.

       -B|--buffer-size  <capture buffer size>

           Set capture buffer size (in MiB, default is 2 MiB). This is used by the capture driver to buffer packet data until that data can be written to
           disk. If you encounter packet drops while capturing, try to increase this size. Note that, while strato attempts to set the buffer size to 2 MiB
           by default, and can be told to set it to a larger value, the system or interface on which you’re capturing might silently limit the capture buffer
           size to a lower value or raise it to a higher value.

           This is available on UNIX-compatible systems, such as Linux, macOS, \*BSD, Solaris, and AIX, with libpcap 1.0.0 or later, and on Windows. It is
           not available on UNIX-compatible systems with earlier versions of libpcap.

           This option can occur multiple times. If used before the first occurrence of the -i option, it sets the default capture buffer size. If used after
           an -i option, it sets the capture buffer size for the interface specified by the last -i option occurring before this option. If the capture
           buffer size is not set specifically, the default capture buffer size is used instead.

       -c  <capture packet count>

           Set the maximum number of packets to read when capturing live data. If reading a capture file, set the maximum number of packets to read. This
           includes any packets that do not pass the display filter, so it may differ from -a packets:<capture packet count>.

       -C  <configuration profile>

           Run with the given configuration profile. If used in conjunction with --global-profile, then the global profile with the associated name would be
           used.

       -D|--list-interfaces

           Print a list of the interfaces on which strato can capture, and exit. For each network interface, a number and an interface name, possibly
           followed by a text description of the interface, is printed. The interface name or the number can be supplied to the -i flag to specify an
           interface on which to capture. The number can be useful on Windows systems, where the interfaces have long names that usually contain a GUID.

       -e  <field>

           Add a field to the list of fields to display if -T ek|fields|json|pdml is selected. This option can be used multiple times on the command line. At
           least one field must be provided if the -T fields option is selected. Column types may be used prefixed with "_ws.col." Prefixing the field name
           with an at sign (@) will display the data as hex bytes.

           Example: strato -T fields -e frame.number -e ip.addr -e udp -e _ws.col.info

           Fields are separated by tab characters by default. -E controls the format of the printed fields. Giving a protocol rather than a single field will
           print the protocol summary (subtree label) from the packet details as a single field. If the protocol summary contains only the protocol name
           (e.g. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol") then the protocol filter name ("http") will be printed.

       -E  <field print option>

           Set an option controlling the printing of fields when -T fields is selected.

           Options are:

           bom=y|n If y, prepend output with the UTF-8 byte order mark (hexadecimal ef, bb, bf). Defaults to n.

           header=y|n If y, print a list of the field names given using -e as the first line of the output; the field name will be separated using the same
           character as the field values. Defaults to n.

           separator=/t|/s|<character> Set the separator character to use for fields. If /t tab will be used (this is the default), if /s, a single space
           will be used. Otherwise any character that can be accepted by the command line as part of the option may be used.

           occurrence=f|l|a Select which occurrence to use for fields that have multiple occurrences. If f the first occurrence will be used, if l the last
           occurrence will be used and if a all occurrences will be used (this is the default).

           aggregator=,|/s|<character> Set the aggregator character to use for fields that have multiple occurrences. If , a comma will be used (this is the
           default), if /s, a single space will be used. Otherwise any character that can be accepted by the command line as part of the option may be used.

           quote=d|s|n Set the quote character to use to surround fields. d uses double-quotes, s single-quotes, n no quotes (the default). If the quote
           character appears in a field value, it will be escaped by being duplicated.

           escape=y|n If y, the whitespace control characters (tab, line feed, carriage return, form feed, and vertical tab) backspace, and the backslash
           will be replaced in field values by C-style escapes, e.g. "\n" for line feed. If n, field value strings will be printed as-is. Defaults to y.

       -f  <capture filter>

           Set the capture filter expression.

           This option can occur multiple times. If used before the first occurrence of the -i option, it sets the default capture filter expression. If used
           after an -i option, it sets the capture filter expression for the interface specified by the last -i option occurring before this option. If the
           capture filter expression is not set specifically, the default capture filter expression is used if provided.

           Pre-defined capture filter names, as shown in the GUI menu item Capture→Capture Filters, can be used by prefixing the argument with "predef:".
           Example: strato -f "predef:MyPredefinedHostOnlyFilter"

       -F  <file format>
           Set the file format of the output capture file written using the -w option. The output written with the -w option is raw packet data, not text, so
           there is no -F option to request text output. The option -F without a value will list the available formats. The default is the pcapng format
           (unless the default has been changed in preferences.) .

       -g
           This option causes the output file(s) to be created with group-read permission (meaning that the output file(s) can be read by other members of
           the calling user’s group).

       -G  <report type>

           The -G option will cause strato to dump one of several types of glossaries and then exit. The glossary type is now mandatory; previous versions
           generated the fields report by default when no type was given. With one exception, the reports reflect the current configuration, including that
           given by a -C option or as modified by other command line options. Using the report type of help lists all the current report types.

           The available report types include:

           column-formats Dumps the column formats understood by strato. There is one record per line. The fields are tab-delimited.

           Field 1
               format string (e.g. "%rD")

           Field 2
               text description of format string (e.g. "Dest port (resolved)")

           Field 3
               field abbreviation used for the column text (e.g. "_ws.col.res_dst_port")

           This report is followed by a usage example that demonstrates how to change the columns by overriding the gui.column.format preference value with
           -o.

           currentprefs  Dumps a copy of the current preferences file to stdout.

           decodes Dumps the "layer type"/"decode as" associations to stdout. There is one record per line. The fields are tab-delimited.

           Field 1
               layer type, e.g. "tcp.port"

           Field 2
               selector in decimal

           Field 3
               "decode as" name, e.g. "http"

           defaultprefs  Dumps a default preferences file to stdout. This report is unaffected by other command line arguments.

           dissectors  Dumps a list of registered dissectors to stdout. There is one record per line. The fields are tab-delimited.

           Field 1
               dissector name

           Field 2
               dissector description

           dissector-tables  Dumps a list of dissector tables to stdout. There is one record per line. The fields are tab-delimited.

           Field 1
               dissector table name, e.g. "tcp.port"

           Field 2
               name used for the dissector table in the GUI

           Field 3
               type (textual representation of the ftenum type, or "heuristic")

           Field 4
               base for display (for integer types)

           Field 5
               protocol name

           Field 6
               "decode as" support (for non-heuristic tables)

           elastic-mapping[,filter]  Dumps the ElasticSearch mapping file to stdout. Fields falling in the default case (string) won’t be mapped.

           filter is an optional list of comma separated protocol filter names that limits the generated mapping file to the specified protocols, to avoid a
           huge mapping file that can choke some software (such as Kibana). E.g.,

               strago -G elastic-mapping,ip,udp,dns

           enterprises Dumps the IANA Private Enterprise Number (PEN) table.

           fieldcount  Dumps the number of header fields to stdout.

           fields[,prefix]  Dumps the contents of the registration database to stdout. An independent program can take this output and format it into nice
           tables or HTML or whatever. There is one record per line. Each record is either a protocol or a header field, differentiated by the first field.
           The fields are tab-delimited.

           Protocols

           Field 1
               'P'

           Field 2
               descriptive protocol name

           Field 3
               protocol abbreviation

           Header Fields

           Field 1
               'F'

           Field 2
               descriptive field name

           Field 3
               field abbreviation

           Field 4
               type (textual representation of the ftenum type)

           Field 5
               parent protocol abbreviation

           Field 6
               base for display (for integer types); "parent bitfield width" for FT_BOOLEAN

           Field 7
               bitmask: format: hex: 0x....

           Field 8
               blurb describing field

           An optional search prefix argument can be given to fields, in which case the output is limited to protocols and fields whose abbreviation starts
           with the search prefix.

           Search Output

           Field 1
               protocol or field abbreviation

           Field 2
               descriptive protocol or field name

           folders Dumps various folders used by strato. This is essentially the same data reported in Wireshark’s About | Folders tab. There is one record
           per line. The fields are tab-delimited.

           Field 1
               Folder type (e.g "Personal configuration:")

           Field 2
               Folder location (e.g. "/home/vagrant/.config/wireshark/")

           ftypes Dumps the "ftypes" (fundamental types) understood by strato. There is one record per line. The fields are tab-delimited.

           Field 1
               FTYPE (e.g "FT_IPv6")

           Field 2
               text description of type (e.g. "IPv6 address")

           heuristic-decodes Dumps the heuristic decodes currently installed. There is one record per line. The fields are tab-delimited.

           Field 1
               heuristic dissector table name (e.g. "tcp")

           Field 2
               name of heuristic decoder (e.g. "ucp")

           Field 3
               heuristic enabled (e.g. "T" or "F")

           Field 4
               heuristic enabled by default (e.g. "T" or "F")

           Field 5
               heuristic short name (e.g. "ucp_tcp")

           Field 6
               heuristic display name (e.g. "UCP over TCP")

           help Displays the available report types.

           manuf Dumps the MAC address lookup table in manuf format.

           plugins Dumps the plugins currently installed. There is one record per line. The fields are tab-delimited.

           Field 1
               plugin library/Lua script/extcap executable (e.g. "gryphon.so")

           Field 2
               plugin version (e.g. 0.0.4)

           Field 3
               plugin type ("dissector", "tap", "file type", etc.)

           Field 4
               full path to plugin file

           protocols Dumps the protocols in the registration database to stdout. An independent program can take this output and format it into nice tables
           or HTML or whatever. There is one record per line. The fields are tab-delimited.

           Field 1
               protocol name

           Field 2
               protocol short name

           Field 3
               protocol filter name

           Field 4
               protocol enabled (e.g. "T" or "F")

           Field 5
               protocol enabled by default (e.g. "T" or "F")

           Field 6
               protocol can toggle (e.g. "T" or "F")

           services Dumps the TCP, UDP, and SCTP transport service (port) table.

           values Dumps the value_strings, range_strings or true/false strings for fields that have them. There is one record per line. Fields are
           tab-delimited. There are three types of records: Value String, Range String and True/False String. The first field, 'V', 'R' or 'T', indicates the
           type of record.

           Value Strings

           Field 1
               'V'

           Field 2
               field abbreviation to which this value string corresponds

           Field 3
               Integer value

           Field 4
               String

           Range Strings

           Field 1
               'R'

           Field 2
               field abbreviation to which this range string corresponds

           Field 3
               Integer value: lower bound

           Field 4
               Integer value: upper bound

           Field 5
               String

           True/False Strings

           Field 1
               'T'

           Field 2
               field abbreviation to which this true/false string corresponds

           Field 3
               True String

           Field 4
               False String

       -h|--help
           Print the version number and options and exit.

       -H  <input hosts file>

           Read a list of entries from a "hosts" file, which will then be written to a capture file. Implies -W n. Can be called multiple times.

           The "hosts" file format is documented at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hosts_(file).

       -i|--interface  <capture interface> | -

           Set the name of the network interface or pipe to use for live packet capture.

           Network interface names should match one of the names listed in "strato -D" (described above); a number, as reported by "strato -D", can also be
           used.

           If no interface is specified, strato searches the list of interfaces, choosing the first non-loopback interface if there are any non-loopback
           interfaces, and choosing the first loopback interface if there are no non-loopback interfaces. If there are no interfaces at all, strato reports
           an error and doesn’t start the capture.

           Pipe names should be either the name of a FIFO (named pipe) or "-" to read data from the standard input. On Windows systems, pipe names must be of
           the form "\\.\pipe\pipename". Data read from pipes must be in standard pcapng or pcap format. Pcapng data must have the same endianness as the
           capturing host.

           "TCP@<host>:<port>" causes strato to attempt to connect to the specified port on the specified host and read pcapng or pcap data.

           This option can occur multiple times. When capturing from multiple interfaces, the capture file will be saved in pcapng format.

       -j  <protocol match filter>

           Protocol match filter used for ek|json|jsonraw|pdml output file types. Only the protocol’s parent node is included. Child nodes are only included
           if explicitly specified in the filter.

           Example: strato -T json -j "ip ip.flags http"

       -J  <protocol match filter>

           Protocol top level filter used for ek|json|jsonraw|pdml output file types. The protocol’s parent node and all child nodes are included.
           Lower-level protocols must be explicitly specified in the filter.

           Example: strato -T pdml -J "tcp http"

       -l

           Flush the standard output after the information for each packet is printed. (This is not, strictly speaking, line-buffered if -V was specified;
           however, it is the same as line-buffered if -V wasn’t specified, as only one line is printed for each packet, and, as -l is normally used when
           piping a live capture to a program or script, so that output for a packet shows up as soon as the packet is seen and dissected, it should work
           just as well as true line-buffering. We do this as a workaround for a deficiency in the Microsoft Visual C++ C library.) This also sets
           --update-interval to 0 ms.

           This may be useful when piping the output of strato to another program, as it means that the program to which the output is piped will see the
           dissected data for a packet as soon as strato sees the packet and generates that output, rather than seeing it only when the standard output
           buffer containing that data fills up.

       -L|--list-data-link-types
           List the data link types supported by the interface and exit. The reported link types can be used for the -y option.

       -o  <preference>:<value>

           Set a preference value, overriding the default value and any value read from a preference file. The argument to the option is a string of the form
           prefname:value, where prefname is the name of the preference (which is the same name that would appear in the preference file), and value is the
           value to which it should be set.

               Note

               strato does not save preferences, so use this for temporary changes for a single execution. To permanently set a preference, change it in the
               Wireshark GUI or edit the preference file directly, creating multiple configuration profiles if you need different preference sets for
               different occasions.

       -O  <protocols>

           Similar to the -V option, but causes strato to only show a detailed view of the comma-separated list of protocols specified, and show only the
           top-level detail line for all other protocols, rather than a detailed view of all protocols. Use the output of "strato -G protocols" to find the
           abbreviations of the protocols you can specify.

       -P|--print

           Decode and display the packet summary or details, even if writing raw packet data using the -w option, and even if packet output is otherwise
           suppressed with -Q.

       -q

           When capturing packets, don’t display the continuous count of packets captured that is normally shown when saving a capture to a file; instead,
           just display, at the end of the capture, a count of packets captured. On systems that support the SIGINFO signal, such as various BSDs, you can
           cause the current count to be displayed by typing your "status" character (typically control-T, although it might be set to "disabled" by default
           on at least some BSDs, so you’d have to explicitly set it to use it).

           When reading a capture file, or when capturing and not saving to a file, don’t print packet information; this is useful if you’re using a -z
           option to calculate statistics and don’t want the packet information printed, just the statistics.

       -Q

           When capturing packets, don’t display, on the standard error, the initial message indicating on which interfaces the capture is being done, the
           continuous count of packets captured shown when saving a capture to a file, and the final message giving the count of packets captured. Only true
           errors are displayed on the standard error.

           This outputs less than the -q option, so the interface name and total packet count and the end of a capture are not sent to stderr.

           When reading a capture file, or when capturing and not saving to a file, don’t print packet information; this is useful if you’re using a -z
           option to calculate statistics and don’t want the packet information printed, just the statistics.

       -r|--read-file  <infile>

           Read packet data from infile, can be any supported capture file format (including compressed files). It is possible to use named pipes or stdin
           (-) here but only with certain capture file formats (in particular: those that can be read without seeking backwards.)

               Tip

               Reading a live capture from the standard out of another process through a pipe can circumvent restrictions that apply to strato during live
               capture, such as file formats or compression.

       -R|--read-filter  <Read filter>

           Cause the specified filter (which uses the syntax of read/display filters, rather than that of capture filters) to be applied during the first
           pass of analysis. Packets not matching the filter are not considered for future passes. Only makes sense with multiple passes, see -2. For regular
           filtering on single-pass dissect see -Y instead.

           Note that forward-looking fields such as 'response in frame #' cannot be used with this filter, since they will not have been calculated when this
           filter is applied.

       -s|--snapshot-length  <capture snaplen>

           Set the default snapshot length to use when capturing live data. No more than snaplen bytes of each network packet will be read into memory, or
           saved to disk. A value of 0 specifies a snapshot length of 262144, so that the full packet is captured; this is the default.

           This option can occur multiple times. If used before the first occurrence of the -i option, it sets the default snapshot length. If used after an
           -i option, it sets the snapshot length for the interface specified by the last -i option occurring before this option. If the snapshot length is
           not set specifically, the default snapshot length is used if provided.

       -S  <separator>
           Set the line separator to be printed between packets.

       -T  ek|fields|json|jsonraw|pdml|ps|psml|tabs|text

           Set the format of the output when viewing decoded packet data. The options are one of:

           ek Newline delimited JSON format for bulk import into Elasticsearch. It can be used with -j or -J to specify which protocols to include or with -x
           to include raw hex-encoded packet data. If -P is specified it will print the packet summary only, with both -P and -V it will print the packet
           summary and packet details. If neither -P or -V are used it will print the packet details only. Example of usage to import data into
           Elasticsearch:

               strato -T ek -j "http tcp ip" -P -V -x -r file.pcap > file.json
               curl -H "Content-Type: application/x-ndjson" -XPOST http://elasticsearch:9200/_bulk --data-binary "@file.json"

           Elastic requires a mapping file to be loaded as template for packets-* index in order to convert Wireshark types to elastic types. This file can
           be auto-generated with the command "strato -G elastic-mapping". Since the mapping file can be huge, protocols can be selected by using the option
           --elastic-mapping-filter:

               strato -G elastic-mapping --elastic-mapping-filter ip,udp,dns

           or adding the filter directly to the -G elastic-mapping option:

               strato -G elastic-mapping,ip,udp,dns

           fields The values of fields specified with the -e option, in a form specified by the -E option. For example,

               strato -T fields -E separator=, -E quote=d

           would generate comma-separated values (CSV) output suitable for importing into your favorite spreadsheet program.

           json JSON file format. It can be used with -j or -J to specify which protocols to include or with -x option to include raw hex-encoded packet
           data. Example of usage:

               strato -T json -r file.pcap
               strato -T json -j "http tcp ip" -x -r file.pcap

           jsonraw JSON file format including only raw hex-encoded packet data. It can be used with -j or -J to specify which protocols to include. Example
           of usage:

               strato -T jsonraw -r file.pcap
               strato -T jsonraw -j "http tcp ip" -x -r file.pcap

           pdml Packet Details Markup Language, an XML-based format for the details of a decoded packet. This information is equivalent to the packet details
           printed with the -V option. Using the --color option will add color attributes to pdml output. These attributes are nonstandard.

           ps PostScript for a human-readable one-line summary of each of the packets, or a multi-line view of the details of each of the packets, depending
           on whether the -V option was specified.

           psml Packet Summary Markup Language, an XML-based format for the summary information of a decoded packet. This information is equivalent to the
           information shown in the one-line summary printed by default. Using the --color option will add color attributes to pdml output. These attributes
           are nonstandard.

           tabs Similar to the default text report except the human-readable one-line summary of each packet will include an ASCII horizontal tab (0x09)
           character as a delimiter between each column.

           text Text of a human-readable one-line summary of each of the packets, or a multi-line view of the details of each of the packets, depending on
           whether the -V option was specified. This is the default.

       --temp-dir <directory>

           Specifies the directory into which temporary files (including capture files) are to be written. The default behavior on UNIX-compatible systems,
           such as Linux, macOS, \*BSD, Solaris, and AIX, is to use the environment variable $TMPDIR if set, and the system default, typically /tmp, if it is
           not. On Windows, the %TEMP% environment variable is used, which typically defaults to %USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\Temp.

       -U <tap name>

           PDUs export, exports PDUs from infile to outfile according to the tap name given. Use -Y to filter.

           Enter an empty tap name "" or a tap name of ? to get a list of available names.

       -v|--version
           Print the full version information and exit.

       -V
           Cause strato to print a view of the packet details.

       -w  <outfile> | -

           Write raw packet data to outfile or to the standard output if outfile is '-'. The -F and --compress options can be used to control the file format
           and compression method. If the latter is not given, then the extension may be used to deduce the desired compression algorithm, if supported, e.g.
           a gzip archive for '.gz'.

               Note

               -w provides raw packet data, not text. If you want text output you need to redirect stdout (e.g. using '>'), don’t use the -w option for this.

       -W  <file format option>

           Save extra information in the file if the format supports it. For example,

               strato -F pcapng -W n

           will save host name resolution records along with captured packets.

           Future versions of strato may automatically change the capture format to pcapng as needed.

           The argument is a string that may contain the following letter:

           n write network address resolution information (pcapng only)

       -x
           Cause strato to print a hex and ASCII dump of the packet data after printing the summary and/or details, if either are also being displayed.

       --hexdump <hexoption>

           Cause strato to print a hex and ASCII dump of the packet data with the ability to select which data sources to dump, how to format or exclude the
           ASCII dump text, and whether to print the frame timestamp as preamble.

           This option (and -x) can occur multiple times on the command line, and the hex dump will only be printed once. In the case of conflicting options,
           the last options given will be used. The possible <hexoption> values are:

           all
               Enable hexdump, generate hexdump blocks for all data sources associated with each frame. Used to negate earlier use of --hexdump frames. The
               -x option displays all data sources by default.

           frames
               Enable hexdump, generate hexdump blocks only for the frame data. Use this option to exclude from hexdump output any hexdump blocks for
               secondary data sources such as 'Bitstring tvb', 'Reassembled TCP', 'De-chunked entity body', etc.

           ascii
               Enable hexdump, with undelimited ASCII dump text. Used to negate earlier use of --hexdump delimit or --hexdump noascii. The -x option displays
               undelimited ASCII dump text by default.

           delimit
               Enable hexdump with the ASCII dump text delimited with '|' characters. This is useful to unambiguously determine the last of the hex byte text
               and start of the ASCII dump text.

           noascii
               Enable hexdump without printing any ASCII dump text.

           time
               Enable hexdump and print each frame timestamp as preamble. The -t option can be used to change the timestamp format.

           notime
               Enable hexdump without print each frame timestamp as preamble.

           help
               Display --hexdump specific help then exit.

           The use of --hexdump <hexoption> is particularly useful to generate output that can be used to create a pcap or pcapng file from a capture file
           type such as Microsoft NetMon 2.x which strato and Wireshark can read but can not directly do a "Save as" nor export packets from.

           Examples:

           Generate hexdump output, with only the frame data source, with delimited ASCII dump text, and with each frame hex block preceded by a human
           readable timestamp in the local time zone that is directly usable by the text2pcap utility:

               strato ... --hexdump frames --hexdump delimit --hexdump time -t ad \
                   | text2pcap -t 'ISO' - MYNEWPCAPNG

           Generate hexdump output, with only the frame data source, with the default ASCII dump text with no delimiter, and with each frame hex block
           preceded by a human readable timestamp in UTC that is directly usable by the text2pcap utility with the -a option:

               strato ... --hexdump frames --hexdump time -t ud \
                   | text2pcap -a -t 'ISO' - MYNEWPCAPNG

           Generate hexdump output, with only the frame data source, with no ASCII dump text, and with each frame hex block preceded by an epoch timestamp
           that is directly usable by the text2pcap utility:

               strato ... --hexdump frames --hexdump noascii --hexdump time -t e \
                   | text2pcap -t %s.%f - MYNEWPCAPNG

       -X <eXtension options>

           Specify an option to be passed to a strato module. The eXtension option is in the form extension_key:value, where extension_key can be:

           lua_script:lua_script_filename tells strato to load the given script in addition to the default Lua scripts.

           lua_scriptnum:argument tells strato to pass the given argument to the lua script identified by 'num', which is the number indexed order of the
           'lua_script' command. For example, if only one script was loaded with '-X lua_script:my.lua', then '-X lua_script1:foo' will pass the string 'foo'
           to the 'my.lua' script. If two scripts were loaded, such as '-X lua_script:my.lua' and '-X lua_script:other.lua' in that order, then a '-X
           lua_script2:bar' would pass the string 'bar' to the second lua script, namely 'other.lua'.

           read_format:file_format tells strato to use the given file format to read in the file (the file given in the -r command option). Providing no
           file_format argument, or an invalid one, will produce a list of available file formats to use. For example,

               strato -r rtcp_broken.pcapng -X read_format:"MIME Files Format" -V

           will display the internal file structure  and allow access to the file-pcapng fields.

       -Y|--display-filter  <displaY filter>

           Cause the specified filter (which uses the syntax of read/display filters, rather than that of capture filters) to be applied before printing a
           decoded form of packets or writing packets to a file. Packets matching the filter are printed or written to file; packets that the matching
           packets depend upon (e.g., fragments), are not printed but are written to file; packets not matching the filter nor depended upon are discarded
           rather than being printed or written.

           Use this instead of -R for filtering using single-pass analysis. If doing two-pass analysis (see -2) then only packets matching the read filter
           (if there is one) will be checked against this filter.

       -M  <auto session reset>

           Automatically reset internal session when reached to specified number of packets. For example,

               strato -M 100000

           will reset session every 100000 packets.

           This feature does not support -2 two-pass analysis

       -z  <statistics>

           Get strato to collect various types of statistics and display the result after finishing reading the capture file. Use the -q option if you’re
           reading a capture file and only want the statistics printed, not any per-packet information.

           Statistics are calculated independently of the normal per-packet output, unaffected by the main display filter. However, most have their own
           optional filter parameter, and only packets that match that filter (and any capture filter or read filter) will be used in the calculations.

           Note that the -z proto option is different - it doesn’t cause statistics to be gathered and printed when the capture is complete, it modifies the
           regular packet summary output to include the values of fields specified with the option. Therefore you must not use the -q option, as that option
           would suppress the printing of the regular packet summary output, and must also not use the -V option, as that would cause packet detail
           information rather than packet summary information to be printed.

           Some of the currently implemented statistics are:

       -z help
           Display all possible values for -z.

       -z container_io,tree[,filter]
           Calculate file I/O statistics for containers.

       -z expert[,error|,warn|,note|,chat|,comment][,filter]

           Collects information about all expert info, and will display them in order, grouped by severity.

           Example: -z expert,sip will show expert items of all severity for frames that match the sip protocol.

           This option can be used multiple times on the command line.

           Example: -z "expert,note,tcp" will only collect expert items for frames that include the tcp protocol, with a severity of note or higher.

       --capture-comment <comment>

           Add a capture comment to the output file, if supported by the output file format.

           This option may be specified multiple times. Note that Wireshark currently only displays the first comment of a capture file.

       --list-time-stamp-types
           List time stamp types supported for the interface. If no time stamp type can be set, no time stamp types are listed.

       --time-stamp-type <type>
           Change the interface’s timestamp method.

       --update-interval  <interval>
           Set the length of time in milliseconds between new packet reports during a capture. Also sets the granularity of file duration conditions. The
           default value is 100ms.

       --color
           Enable coloring of packets according to standard Wireshark color filters. On Windows colors are limited to the standard console character
           attribute colors. Other platforms require a terminal that handles 24-bit "true color" terminal escape sequences. See
           https://wiki.wireshark.org/ColoringRules for more information on configuring color filters.

       --no-duplicate-keys
           If a key appears multiple times in an object, only write it a single time with as value a json array containing all the separate values. (Only
           works with -T json)

       --elastic-mapping-filter <protocol>,<protocol>,...

           When generating the ElasticSearch mapping file, only put the specified protocols in it, to avoid a huge mapping file that can choke some software
           (such as Kibana). The option takes a list of wanted protocol abbreviations, separated by comma.

           Example: ip,udp,dns puts only those three protocols in the mapping file.

       --export-objects <protocol>,<destdir>

           Export all objects within a protocol into directory destdir. The available values for protocol can be listed with --export-objects help.

           The objects are directly saved in the given directory. Filenames are dependent on the dissector, but typically it is named after the basename of a
           file. Duplicate files are not overwritten, instead an increasing number is appended before the file extension.

           This interface is subject to change, adding the possibility to filter on files.

       --print-timers
           Output JSON containing elapsed times for each pass strato does to process a capture file and the sum elapsed time for all passes. The per-pass
           output contains the total elapsed time and aggregate counters for per-packet operations (dissection and filtering).

       --compress <type>

           Compress the output file using the type compression format. --compress with no argument provides a list of the compression formats supported for
           writing. The type given takes precedence over the extension of outfile.

DISSECTION OPTIONS
       -d  <layer type>==<selector>,<decode-as protocol>

           Like Wireshark’s Decode As... feature, this lets you specify how a layer type should be dissected. If the layer type in question (for example,
           tcp.port or udp.port for a TCP or UDP port number) has the specified selector value, packets should be dissected as the specified protocol.

           Example 1. Decode As Port

               -d tcp.port==8888,http will decode any traffic running over TCP port 8888 as HTTP.

           Example 2. Decode As Port Range

               -d tcp.port==8888-8890,http will decode any traffic running over TCP ports 8888, 8889 or 8890 as HTTP.

           Example 3. Decode As Port Range via Length

               -d tcp.port==8888:3,http will decode any traffic running over the three TCP ports 8888, 8889 or 8890 as HTTP.

           Using an invalid selector or protocol will print out a list of valid selectors and protocol names, respectively.

           Example 4. Decode As List of Selectors

               -d . is a quick way to get a list of valid selectors.

           Example 5. Decode As List of Values for a Selector

               -d ethertype==0x0800,. is a quick way to get a list of protocols that can be selected with an ethertype.

       --disable-all-protocols
           Disable dissection of all protocols.

       --disable-protocol <proto_name>[,<proto_name>,...]
           Disable dissection of proto_name. Use a proto_name of ALL to override your chosen profile’s default enabled protocol list and temporarily disable
           all protocols.

       --disable-heuristic <short_name>
           Disable dissection of heuristic protocol.

       --enable-protocol <proto_name>[,<proto_name>,...]

           Enable dissection of proto_name. Use a proto_name of ALL to override your chosen profile’s default disabled protocol list and temporarily enable
           all protocols which are enabled by default.

           If a protocol is implicated in both --disable-protocol and --enable-protocol, the protocol is enabled. This allows you to temporarily disable all
           protocols but a list of exceptions. Example: --disable-protocol ALL --enable-protocol eth,ip

       --enable-heuristic <short_name>
           Enable dissection of heuristic protocol.

       -K  <keytab>

           Load kerberos crypto keys from the specified keytab file. This option can be used multiple times to load keys from several files.

           Example: -K krb5.keytab

       -n
           Disable network object name resolution (such as hostname, TCP and UDP port names); the -N option might override this one.

       -N  <name resolving flags>

           Turn on name resolving only for particular types of addresses and port numbers, with name resolving for other types of addresses and port numbers
           turned off. This option (along with -n) can be specified multiple times; the last value given overrides earlier ones. This option and -n override
           the options from the preferences, including preferences set via the -o option. If both -N and -n options are not present, the values from the
           preferences are used, which default to -N dmN.

           The argument is a string that may contain the letters:

           d to enable resolution from captured DNS packets

           g to enable IP address geolocation information lookup from configured MaxMind databases

           m to enable MAC address resolution

           n to enable network address resolution

           N to enable using external resolvers (e.g., DNS) for network address resolution; no effect without n also enabled.

           s to enable address resolution using SNI information found in captured handshake packets

           t to enable transport-layer port number resolution

           v to enable VLAN IDs to names resolution

               Caution

               In tshark single-pass mode, external resolution and geolocation lookup is performed synchronously. For live captures, which are always in
               single-pass mode, this makes it more difficult for dissection to keep up with a busy network, possibly leading to dropped packets.

       --only-protocols <protocols>
           Only enable dissection of these protocols, comma separated. Disable everything else.

       -t  (a|ad|adoy|d|dd|e|r|u|ud|udoy)[.[N]]|.[N]

           Set the format of the packet timestamp displayed in the default time column. The format can be one of:

           a absolute: The absolute time, as local time in your time zone, is the actual time the packet was captured, with no date displayed

           ad absolute with date: The absolute date, displayed as YYYY-MM-DD, and time, as local time in your time zone, is the actual time and date the
           packet was captured

           adoy absolute with date using day of year: The absolute date, displayed as YYYY/DOY, and time, as local time in your time zone, is the actual time
           and date the packet was captured

           d delta: The delta time is the time since the previous packet was captured

           dd delta_displayed: The delta_displayed time is the time since the previous displayed packet was captured

           e epoch: The time in seconds since epoch (Jan 1, 1970 00:00:00)

           r relative: The relative time is the time elapsed between the first packet and the current packet

           u UTC: The absolute time, as UTC with a "Z" suffix, is the actual time the packet was captured, with no date displayed

           ud UTC with date: The absolute date, displayed as YYYY-MM-DD, and time, as UTC with a "Z" suffix, is the actual time and date the packet was
           captured

           udoy UTC with date using day of year: The absolute date, displayed as YYYY/DOY, and time, as UTC with a "Z" suffix, is the actual time and date
           the packet was captured

           .[N] Set the precision: N is the number of decimals (0 through 9). If using "." without N, automatically determine precision from trace.

           The default format is relative with precision based on capture format.

       -u <s|hms>

           Specifies how packet timestamp formats in -t which are relative times (i.e. relative, delta, and delta_displayed) are displayed. Valid choices
           are:

           s for seconds

           hms for hours, minutes, and seconds

           The default format is seconds.

DIAGNOSTIC OPTIONS
       --log-level <level>
           Set the active log level. Supported levels in lowest to highest order are "noisy", "debug", "info", "message", "warning", "critical", and "error".
           Messages at each level and higher will be printed, for example "warning" prints "warning", "critical", and "error" messages and "noisy" prints all
           messages. Levels are case insensitive.

       --log-fatal <level>
           Abort the program if any messages are logged at the specified level or higher. For example, "warning" aborts on any "warning", "critical", or
           "error" messages.

       --log-domains <list>
           Only print messages for the specified log domains, e.g. "GUI,Epan,sshdump". List of domains must be comma-separated. Can be negated with "!" as
           the first character (inverts the match).

       --log-debug <list>
           Force the specified domains to log at the "debug" level. List of domains must be comma-separated. Can be negated with "!" as the first character
           (inverts the match).

       --log-noisy <list>
           Force the specified domains to log at the "noisy" level. List of domains must be comma-separated. Can be negated with "!" as the first character
           (inverts the match).

       --log-fatal-domains <list>
           Abort the program if any messages are logged for the specified log domains. List of domains must be comma-separated.

       --log-file <path>
           Write log messages and stderr output to the specified file.

FILES
       These files contain various Wireshark configuration settings.

       Preferences

           The preferences files contain global (system-wide) and personal preference settings. If the system-wide preference file exists, it is read first,
           overriding the default settings. If the personal preferences file exists, it is read next, overriding any previous values. Note: If the command
           line flag -o is used (possibly more than once), it will in turn override values from the preferences files.

           The preferences settings are in the form prefname:value, one per line, where prefname is the name of the preference and value is the value to
           which it should be set; white space is allowed between : and value. A preference setting can be continued on subsequent lines by indenting the
           continuation lines with white space. A # character starts a comment that runs to the end of the line:

               # Vertical scrollbars should be on right side?
               # TRUE or FALSE (case-insensitive).
               gui.scrollbar_on_right: TRUE

           The global preferences file is looked for in the wireshark directory under the share subdirectory of the main installation directory. On macOS,
           this would typically be /Application/Wireshark.app/Contents/Resources/share; on other UNIX-compatible systems, such as Linux, \*BSD, Solaris, and
           AIX, this would typically be /usr/share/wireshark/preferences for system-installed packages and /usr/local/share/wireshark/preferences for
           locally-installed packages; on Windows, this would typically be C:\Program Files\Wireshark\preferences.

           On UNIX-compatible systems, the personal preferences file is looked for in $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/wireshark/preferences, (or, if
           $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/wireshark does not exist while $HOME/.wireshark does exist, $HOME/.wireshark/preferences); this is typically
           $HOME/.config/wireshark/preferences. On Windows, the personal preferences file is looked for in %APPDATA%\Wireshark\preferences (or, if %APPDATA%
           isn’t defined, %USERPROFILE%\Application Data\Wireshark\preferences).

       Disabled (Enabled) Protocols

           The disabled_protos files contain system-wide and personal lists of protocols that have been disabled, so that their dissectors are never called.
           The files contain protocol names, one per line, where the protocol name is the same name that would be used in a display filter for the protocol:

               http
               tcp     # a comment

           If a protocol is listed in the global disabled_protos file it cannot be enabled by the user.

           The global disabled_protos file uses the same directory as the global preferences file.

           The personal disabled_protos file uses the same directory as the personal preferences file.

           The disabled_protos files list only protocols that are enabled by default but have been disabled; protocols that are disabled by default (such as
           some postdissectors) are not listed. There are analogous enabled_protos files for protocols that are disabled by default but have been enabled.

       Heuristic Dissectors

           The heuristic_protos files contain system-wide and personal lists of heuristic dissectors and indicate whether they are enabled or disabled. The
           files contain heuristic dissector unique short names, one per line, followed by a comma and 0 for disabled and 1 for enabled:

               quic,1
               rtcp_stun,1
               rtcp_udp,1
               rtp_stun,0
               rtp_udp,0
               tls_tcp,1

           The global heuristic_protos file uses the same directory as the global preferences file.

           The personal heuristic_protos file uses the same directory as the personal preferences file.

       Name Resolution (hosts)

           Entries in hosts files in the global and personal preferences directory are used to resolve IPv4 and IPv6 addresses before any other attempts are
           made to resolve them. The file has the standard hosts file syntax; each line contains one IP address and name, separated by whitespace. The
           personal hosts file, if present, overrides the one in the global directory.

           Capture filter name resolution is handled by libpcap on UNIX-compatible systems, such as Linux, macOS, \*BSD, Solaris, and AIX, and Npcap on
           Windows. As such the Wireshark personal hosts file will not be consulted for capture filter name resolution.

       Name Resolution (subnets)

           If an IPv4 address cannot be translated via name resolution (no exact match is found) then a partial match is attempted via the subnets file. Both
           the global subnets file and personal subnets files are used if they exist.

           Each line of this file consists of an IPv4 address, a subnet mask length separated only by a / and a name separated by whitespace. While the
           address must be a full IPv4 address, any values beyond the mask length are subsequently ignored.

           An example is:

           # Comments must be prepended by the # sign! 192.168.0.0/24 ws_test_network

           A partially matched name will be printed as "subnet-name.remaining-address". For example, "192.168.0.1" under the subnet above would be printed as
           "ws_test_network.1"; if the mask length above had been 16 rather than 24, the printed address would be "ws_test_network.0.1".

       Name Resolution (ethers)

           The ethers files are consulted to correlate 6-byte EUI-48 and 8-byte EUI-64 hardware addresses to names. First the personal ethers file is tried
           and if an address is not found there the global ethers file is tried next.

           The file has a similar format to that defined by ethers(5) on some UNIX-like systems. Each line contains one hardware address and name, separated
           by whitespace (tabs or spaces). The hexadecimal digits of the hardware address are separated by colons (:), dashes (-) or periods (.). The same
           separator character must be used consistently in an address. A # indicates a comment that extends to the rest of the line. Both 6-byte MAC and
           8-byte EUI-64 addresses are supported. The following four lines are valid lines of an ethers file:

               ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff          Broadcast
               c0-00-ff-ff-ff-ff          TR_broadcast
               00.00.00.00.00.00          Zero_broadcast
               00:00:00:00:00:00:00:00    EUI64_zero_broadcast

           Note that this accepts a greater variety of formats than the file defined by ethers(5) on most UN*X systems.

           The global ethers file is looked for in the /etc directory on UNIX-compatible systems, such as Linux, macOS, \*BSD, Solaris, and AIX, and in the
           main installation directory (for example, C:\Program Files\Wireshark) on Windows systems.

           The personal ethers file is looked for in the same directory as the personal preferences file.

           Capture filter name resolution is handled by libpcap on UNIX-compatible systems and Npcap on Windows. As such the Wireshark personal ethers file
           will not be consulted for capture filter name resolution.

       Name Resolution (manuf)

           The manuf file is used to match the 3-byte vendor portion of a 6-byte hardware address with the manufacturer’s name; it can also contain
           well-known MAC addresses and address ranges specified with a netmask. The format of the file is similar the ethers files, except that entries such
           as:

               00:00:0C      Cisco     Cisco Systems, Inc

           can be provided, with the 3-byte OUI and both an abbreviated and long name for a vendor, and entries such as:

               00-00-0C-07-AC/40     All-HSRP-routers

           can be specified, with a MAC address and a mask indicating how many bits of the address must match. The above entry, for example, has 40
           significant bits, or 5 bytes, and would match addresses from 00-00-0C-07-AC-00 through 00-00-0C-07-AC-FF. The mask need not be a multiple of 8.

           A global manuf file is looked for in the same directory as the global preferences file, and a personal manuf file is looked for in the same
           directory as the personal preferences file.

           In earlier versions of Wireshark, official information from the IEEE Registration Authority was distributed in this format as the global manuf
           file. This information is now compiled in to speed program startup, but the internal information can be written out in this format with tshark -G
           manuf.

           In addition to the manuf file, another file with the same format, wka, is looked for in the global directory. This file is distributed with
           Wireshark, and contains data about well-known MAC adddresses and address ranges assembled from various non IEEE but respected sources.

       Name Resolution (services)

           The services file is used to translate port numbers into names. Both the global services file and personal services files are used if they exist.

           The file has the standard services file syntax; each line contains one (service) name and one transport identifier separated by white space. The
           transport identifier includes one port number and one transport protocol name (typically tcp, udp, or sctp) separated by a /.

           An example is:

           mydns       5045/udp     # My own Domain Name Server mydns       5045/tcp     # My own Domain Name Server

           In earlier versions of Wireshark, official information from the IANA Registry was distributed in this format as the global services file. This
           information is now compiled in to speed program startup, but the internal information can be written out in this format with tshark -G services.

       Name Resolution (ipxnets)

           The ipxnets files are used to correlate 4-byte IPX network numbers to names. First the global ipxnets file is tried and if that address is not
           found there the personal one is tried next.

           The format is the same as the ethers file, except that each address is four bytes instead of six. Additionally, the address can be represented as
           a single hexadecimal number, as is more common in the IPX world, rather than four hex octets. For example, these four lines are valid lines of an
           ipxnets file:

               C0.A8.2C.00              HR
               c0-a8-1c-00              CEO
               00:00:BE:EF              IT_Server1
               110f                     FileServer3

           The global ipxnets file is looked for in the /etc directory on UNIX-compatible systems, such as Linux, macOS, \*BSD, Solaris, and AIX, and in the
           main installation directory (for example, C:\Program Files\Wireshark) on Windows systems.

           The personal ipxnets file is looked for in the same directory as the personal preferences file.

       Name Resolution (ss7pcs)

           The ss7pcs file is used to translate SS7 point codes to names. It is read from the personal configuration directory.

           Each line in this file consists of one network indicator followed by a dash followed by a point code in decimal and a node name separated by
           whitespace. An example is:

               2-1234 MyPointCode1

       Name Resolution (vlans)

           The vlans file is used to translate VLAN tag IDs into names. It is read from the personal configuration directory.

           Each line in this file consists of one VLAN tag ID separated by whitespace from a name. An example is:

               123    Server-Lan
               2049   HR-Client-LAN

       Color Filters (Coloring Rules)

           The colorfilters files contain system-wide and personal color filters. Each line contains one filter, starting with the string displayed in the
           dialog box, followed by the corresponding display filter. Then the background and foreground colors are appended:

               # a comment
               @tcp@tcp@[59345,58980,65534][0,0,0]
               @udp@udp@[28834,57427,65533][0,0,0]

           The global colorfilters file uses the same directory as the global preferences file.

           The personal colorfilters file uses the same directory as the personal preferences file. It is written through the View:Coloring Rules dialog.

           If the global colorfilters file exists, it is used only if the personal colorfilters file does not exist; global and personal color filters are
           not merged.

       Plugins

           Wireshark looks for plugins in both a personal plugin folder and a global plugin folder.

           On UNIX-compatible systems, such as Linux, macOS, \*BSD, Solaris, and AIX, the global plugin directory is lib/wireshark/plugins/ (on some systems
           substitute lib64 for lib) under the main installation directory (for example, /usr/local/lib/wireshark/plugins/). The personal plugin directory is
           $HOME/.local/lib/wireshark/plugins.

           On macOS, if Wireshark is installed as an application bundle, the global plugin folder is instead %APPDIR%/Contents/PlugIns/wireshark.

           On Windows, the global plugin folder is plugins/ under the main installation directory (for example, C:\Program Files\Wireshark\plugins\). The
           personal plugin folder is %APPDATA%\Wireshark\plugins (or, if %APPDATA% isn’t defined, %USERPROFILE%\Application Data\Wireshark\plugins).

           Lua plugins are stored in the plugin folders; compiled plugins are stored in subfolders of the plugin folders, with the subfolder name being the
           Wireshark minor version number (X.Y). There is another hierarchical level for each Wireshark plugin type (libwireshark, libwiretap and codecs).
           For example, the location for a libwireshark plugin foo.so (foo.dll on Windows) would be PLUGINDIR/X.Y/epan (libwireshark used to be called
           libepan; the other folder names are codecs and wiretap).

               Note

               On UNIX-compatible systems, Lua plugins (but not binary plugins) may also be placed in $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/wireshark/plugins, (or, if
               $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/wireshark does not exist while $HOME/.wireshark does exist, $HOME/.wireshark/plugins.)

           Note that a dissector plugin module may support more than one protocol; there is not necessarily a one-to-one correspondence between dissector
           plugin modules and protocols. Protocols supported by a dissector plugin module are enabled and disabled in the same way as protocols built into
           Wireshark.

OUTPUT
       strato uses UTF-8 to represent strings internally. In some cases the output might not be valid. For example, a dissector might generate invalid UTF-8
       character sequences. Programs reading strato output should expect UTF-8 and be prepared for invalid output.

       If strato detects that it is writing to a TTY on a UNIX-compatible system, such as Linux, macOS, \*BSD, Solaris, and AIX, and the locale does not
       support UTF-8, output will be re-encoded to match the current locale.

       If strato detects that it is writing to the console on Windows, dissection output will be encoded as UTF-16LE. Other output will be UTF-8. If extended
       characters don’t display properly in your terminal you might try setting your console code page to UTF-8 (chcp 65001) and using a modern terminal
       application if possible.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       WIRESHARK_CONFIG_DIR
           This environment variable overrides the location of personal configuration files. On UNIX-compatible systems, such as Linux, macOS, \*BSD,
           Solaris, and AIX, it defaults to $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/wireshark (or, if that directory doesn’t exist but $HOME/.wireshark does exist,
           $HOME/.wireshark); this is typically $HOME/.config/wireshark. On Windows, it defaults to %APPDATA%\Wireshark (or, if %APPDATA% isn’t defined,
           %USERPROFILE%\Application Data\Wireshark). Available since Wireshark 3.0.

       WIRESHARK_DEBUG_WMEM_OVERRIDE
           Setting this environment variable forces the wmem framework to use the specified allocator backend for all allocations, regardless of which
           backend is normally specified by the code. This is mainly useful to developers when testing or debugging. See README.wmem in the source
           distribution for details.

       WIRESHARK_RUN_FROM_BUILD_DIRECTORY
           This environment variable causes the plugins and other data files to be loaded from the build directory (where the program was compiled) rather
           than from the standard locations. It has no effect when the program in question is running with root (or setuid) permissions on UNIX-compatible
           systems, such as Linux, macOS, \*BSD, Solaris, and AIX.

       WIRESHARK_DATA_DIR
           This environment variable causes the various data files to be loaded from a directory other than the standard locations. It has no effect when the
           program in question is running with root (or setuid) permissions on UNIX-compatible systems.

       WIRESHARK_EXTCAP_DIR
           This environment variable causes the various extcap programs and scripts to be run from a directory other than the standard locations. It has no
           effect when the program in question is running with root (or setuid) permissions on UNIX-compatible systems.

       WIRESHARK_PLUGIN_DIR
           This environment variable causes the various plugins to be loaded from a directory other than the standard locations. It has no effect when the
           program in question is running with root (or setuid) permissions on UNIX-compatible systems.

       ERF_RECORDS_TO_CHECK
           This environment variable controls the number of ERF records checked when deciding if a file really is in the ERF format. Setting this environment
           variable a number higher than the default (20) would make false positives less likely.

       IPFIX_RECORDS_TO_CHECK
           This environment variable controls the number of IPFIX records checked when deciding if a file really is in the IPFIX format. Setting this
           environment variable a number higher than the default (20) would make false positives less likely.

       WIRESHARK_ABORT_ON_DISSECTOR_BUG
           If this environment variable is set, strato will call abort(3) when a dissector bug is encountered. abort(3) will cause the program to exit
           abnormally; if you are running strato in a debugger, it should halt in the debugger and allow inspection of the process, and, if you are not
           running it in a debugger, it will, on some OSes, assuming your environment is configured correctly, generate a core dump file. This can be useful
           to developers attempting to troubleshoot a problem with a protocol dissector.

       WIRESHARK_ABORT_ON_TOO_MANY_ITEMS
           If this environment variable is set, strato will call abort(3) if a dissector tries to add too many items to a tree (generally this is an
           indication of the dissector not breaking out of a loop soon enough). abort(3) will cause the program to exit abnormally; if you are running strato
           in a debugger, it should halt in the debugger and allow inspection of the process, and, if you are not running it in a debugger, it will, on some
           OSes, assuming your environment is configured correctly, generate a core dump file. This can be useful to developers attempting to troubleshoot a
           problem with a protocol dissector.

       WIRESHARK_LOG_LEVEL
           This environment variable controls the verbosity of diagnostic messages to the console. From less verbose to most verbose levels can be critical,
           warning, message, info, debug or noisy. Levels above the current level are also active. Levels critical and error are always active.

       WIRESHARK_LOG_FATAL
           Sets the fatal log level. Fatal log levels cause the program to abort. This level can be set to Error, critical or warning. Error is always fatal
           and is the default.

       WIRESHARK_LOG_DOMAINS
           This environment variable selects which log domains are active. The filter is given as a case-insensitive comma separated list. If set only the
           included domains will be enabled. The default domain is always considered to be enabled. Domain filter lists can be preceded by '!' to invert the
           sense of the match.

       WIRESHARK_LOG_DEBUG
           List of domains with debug log level. This sets the level of the provided log domains and takes precedence over the active domains filter. If
           preceded by '!' this disables the debug level instead.

       WIRESHARK_LOG_NOISY
           Same as above but for noisy log level instead.

SEE ALSO
       wireshark-filter(4), stratoshark(1), editcap(1), dumpcap(1)

NOTES
       This is the manual page for strato 0.9.3. strato is part of the Stratoshark distribution. The latest version of Stratoshark can be found at
       https://stratoshark.org/.

       HTML versions of the Wireshark project man pages are available at https://www.wireshark.org/docs/man-pages.

AUTHORS
       strato uses the same dissection code as Stratoshark and Wireshark, as well as using many other modules from Stratoshark and Wireshark; see the list of
       authors in the Wireshark man page for a list of authors of that code.

                                                                          2026-02-28                                                                STRATO(1)
