streamtuner2(1)                                                                             Application manuals                                                                             streamtuner2(1)

NAME
       streamtuner2 - Browser for internet radio stations

SYNOPSIS
       streamtuner2 command [ channel,...  ] [ title ]

DESCRIPTION
       Streamtuner2 is a graphical application for browsing through internet radio station directories, like: ®.R "• Xiph.org" ®.R "• Internet-Radio" ®.R "• MyOggRadio" ®.R "• SomaFM" ®.R "• Streema"

       It utilizes your configured audio player or recording applications, which can be configured in the <F12> settings window.

       It is written in Python and easy to extend. And besides the grapical interface, has a commandline interface. It comes with a couple of feature plugins and additional channels.

OPTIONS
       Without any options, it starts in the graphical mode, of course.

       help   Prints out a summary of available commands.

       Cached data

       stream channel title
              Searches for a station with the given title. Either looks in a single channel, or scans all plugins.

       url channel title
              Prints out only the streaming URL.

       play [channel] title
              Invokes the configured audio player.

       Instantly retrieve data from directory service

       categories channelname
              Returns a nested JSON list of all categories/genres.

       category "channelname" "Category"
              Prints out a JSON list of the genre. Each entry constains title, url and other meta information. Note that the category must have the exact case.

EXAMPLES
       streamtuner2 stream shoutcast,xiph "Top 100"
              Searches for the term "Top 100" in the shoutcast and xiph channels, and returns all info about the first match as JSON output.

       streamtuner2 play frequence3
              Looks for the first occourence, and starts the audio player for FREQUENCE3.

       streamtuner2 category tunein Jazz
              Dumps a JSON list of all stations the named genre.

GRAPHICAL MODE
       There's only one option for the graphical UI mode:

       --gtk3 Loads Gtk3 via PyGI instead of Gtk2. This is implicit when running on Python3 anyway.

       --nt   No-threading mode avoids some UI separation, but stabilizes the interface (in particular channel loading crashes occassionally) for some Gtk2/Gtk3 and Python combinations.

       -d plugin
              Disable plugin from loading. Plugin names are all-lowercase and sometimes short versions of the channel or feature, such as "reddit", "xiph", "favicons" or "dnd".

       -e plugin
              Load a plugin that isn't set by default.

OTHER OPTIONS
       -D     Enable debug mode, which shows a lot of activity messages during Streamtuner2 running - including UI changes and network requests or extraction steps.

       -V     Show streamtuner version.

       version -v
              Summarize all plugin versions.

FILES
       /home/$USER/.config/streamtuner2/settings.json

SEE ALSO
       streamripper(1) audacious(1) json(5) m3u(5) pls(5)

2.1.4                                                                                            2015-04-02                                                                                 streamtuner2(1)
