SUB(1)                                                                                                                                                                                                   SUB(1)

NAME
       sub - subscribe to MQTT topics

SYNOPSIS
       sub [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       sub connects to the given MQTT broker and subscribes to all topics specified. Messages received on a topic are printed to stdout, prefixed with the topic the message was received on.

       All options can be passed either as command-line arguments or can be specified in a simple config file.

OPTIONS
       -broker URL
           broker address (should be in the form of a URL)

       -ca-root FILE
           path to a FILE containing CA certificates (optional)

       -cert-file FILE
           authenticate with a certificate

       -clean
           discard any pending messages from the broker (default true)

       -client-id STRING
           unique identifier for this client (defaults to a semi-random string)

       -config FILE
           path to FILE containing configuration values (optional)

       -header KEY=VALUE
           set an HTTP header (in KEY=VALUE form) (can be specified multiple times)

       -key-file FILE
           authenticate with a private key

       -password STRING
           authenticate with a password

       -qos INTEGER
           quality of service for messages

       -topic STRING
           topic to publish or subscribe to (can be specified multiple times)

       -username STRING
           authenticate with a username

       -verbose
           increase output

CONFIGURATION
       Any option may be specified as a value in a configuration file instead of (or in addition to) a command-line option. Values present on the command-line take precedent over values in the configration
       file. Thus it is easy to create a base configration file that can be augmented easily at run time.

       The configuration file takes the form of a simple space-separated "option value" format (i.e. "broker tcp://test.mosquitto.org:1883").

EXAMPLES
       Connect to a broker anonymously and subscribe to two topics.

           sub -broker tcp://test.mosquitto.org:1883 -topic mqttcli/pubtest -topic mqttcli/pubtest1

       Connect to a broker using username/password authentication and subscribe to a topic.

           sub -broker tcp://test.mosquitto.org:1884 -username ro -password readonly -topic mqttcli/pubtest

AUTHOR
       Link Dupont <link@sub-pop.net>
           Author.

                                                                                                   12/10/2021                                                                                            SUB(1)
