SUPERCRONIC(1)                                                                                 User Commands                                                                                 SUPERCRONIC(1)

NAME
     supercronic - crontab-compatible job runner, optimised for containers

SYNOPSIS
     supercronic [OPTIONS] CRONTAB

DESCRIPTION
     supercronic  is a drop-in replacement for cron(8) designed to run inside containers.  Unlike traditional cron it logs to stdout/stderr instead of syslog, forwards signals to job process groups, sup‐
     ports hot-reloading of the crontab file, and handles zombie-process reaping when running as PID 1.

     CRONTAB is the path to a crontab(5) file.

OPTIONS
     -debug
            Enable debug-level logging.

     -quiet
            Suppress informational log messages; only warnings and errors are logged.  Takes precedence over -debug.

     -json  Format log output as JSON.

     -split-logs
            Write stdout output from jobs to stdout and stderr output to stderr, instead of mixing both into a single stream.

     -passthrough-logs
            Pass job output through without wrapping it in supercronic log entries.

     -test  Parse and validate the crontab file, then exit without running any jobs.  Returns exit code 0 on success.

     -overlapping
            Allow a new instance of a job to start even if the previous instance is still running.

     -inotify
            Use inotify to watch the crontab file for changes and reload automatically, instead of polling.  Useful for Kubernetes ConfigMap and Secret mounts.

     -no-reap
            Disable zombie-process reaping.  Reaping requires supercronic to be PID 1; use this flag if another process reaper is already running.

     -prometheus-listen-address ADDRESS
            Expose a Prometheus /metrics endpoint at ADDRESS.  ADDRESS is an ip[:port] value; use 0.0.0.0 for all interfaces.  Disabled by default.

     -sentry-dsn DSN
            Send panic, fatal, and error log entries to the Sentry project identified by DSN.  Disabled by default.  See also the SENTRY_DSN environment variable.

     -sentry-environment ENV
            Set the Sentry environment name (e.g. production).

     -sentry-release VERSION
            Set the application release version reported to Sentry.

     -sentryDsn DSN
            Deprecated alias for -sentry-dsn.

     -version
            Print the version string and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
     SENTRY_DSN
            Sentry Data Source Name.  Equivalent to -sentry-dsn.

     SENTRY_ENVIRONMENT
            Sentry environment name.  Equivalent to -sentry-environment.

     SENTRY_RELEASE
            Application release version for Sentry.  Equivalent to -sentry-release.

SIGNALS
     SIGTERM, SIGINT, SIGQUIT
            Graceful shutdown: wait for all running jobs to finish, then exit.

     SIGUSR2
            Reload the crontab file without stopping running jobs.

SEE ALSO
     crontab(5), cron(8), cronexpr(1)

BUGS
     Please report bugs at <https://github.com/aptible/supercronic/issues>.

supercronic 0.2.45                                                                               2026-05-21                                                                                  SUPERCRONIC(1)
