SUPYBOT(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  SUPYBOT(1)

NAME
       supybot - A robust and user friendly Python IRC bot

SYNOPSIS
       supybot [options] configFile

DESCRIPTION
       Supybot  is a robust, user-friendly, and programmer-friendly Python IRC bot.  It aims to be an adequate replacement for most existing IRC bots.  It includes a very flexible and powerful ACL system for
       controlling access to commands, as well as more than 50 builtin plugins providing around 400 actual commands.

OPTIONS
       --version
              Show version of program.

       -h, --help
              Show summary of options.

       -P, --profile
              Enable profiling.

       -n NICK, --nick=NICK
              Nick the bot should use.

       -u USER, --user=USER
              Full username the bot should use.

       -i IDENT, --ident=IDENT
              Ident the bot should use.

       -d, --daemon
              Determines whether the bot will daemonize.  This is a no-op on non-POSIX systems.

       --allow-default-owner
              Determines whether the bot will allow its defaultCapabilities not to include "-owner", thus giving all users the owner capability by default.  This is dumb, hence we require a command-line  op‐
              tion to enable it.

       --allow-root
              Determines whether the bot will be allowed to run as root.  You do not want this.  Do not do it.  Even if you think you want it, you do not.

       --debug
              Determines whether some extra debugging stuff will be logged by this script.

SEE ALSO
       python(1), supybot-test(1), supybot-botchk(1), supybot-wizard(1), supybot-adduser(1), supybot-plugin-doc(1), supybot-plugin-create(1)

AUTHOR
       This manual page was originally written by James McCoy <vega dot james at gmail dot com>.  Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the Supybot license,
       a BSD-style license.

                                                                                                   JULY 2009                                                                                         SUPYBOT(1)
