SURF(1)                                                                                          Surf Tool                                                                                          SURF(1)

NAME
       surf - visualization of algebraic curves and surfaces

SYNOPSIS
       surf [FILE]...

DESCRIPTION
       surf is a script driven tool to render algebraic curves and surfaces.

       The only input needed is the equation of an algebraic curve/surface in everyday mathematical notation. The output is a (series of) color or black and white image(s) in one of several file formats.

       surf also provides a C-style command language which helps working out more complicated equations.

       The  resolution of an image is only bounded by the available memory. Since the image is stored as an array of floats and because some image processing algorithms need a copy of the image, you need
       at least width*height*12 bytes of virtual memory.

       A relevant extension to the image output filename can be automatically provided by either enabling the auto-extension machinery or giving a dummy extension.  The auto-extension machinery  is  dis‐
       abled by default for backward compatibility, while the implemented dummy extensions are: .xxx, .XXX, .auto-extension, and .automatic-extension.

       surf  can  handle  curves/surfaces up to degree 30. The main features include algebraic curves, algebraic surfaces, hyper plane sections, lines on surfaces, multiple curves/surfaces, adaptive anti
       aliasing and dithering.

OPTIONS
       --disable-auto-extension
              disable automatic extension for graphic files (default)

       --enable-auto-extension
              enable automatic extension for graphic files

       -v, --verbose
              verbose operation, print the executed commands (default)

       -q, --quiet, --silent
              quiet operation, do not print the executed commands

       -h, --help
              display this help and exit

       -V, --version
              display version tuple and exit

AUTHORS
       Stephan Endrass, Hans Huelf, Ruediger Oertel, Kai Schneider, Ralf Schmitt, Johannes Beigel

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1997-2015 Johannes Gutenberg-Universitaet Mainz
       Copyright (C) 1996-1997 Friedrich Alexander Universitaet Erlangen-Nuernberg

surf (Debian )                                                                                   June 2025                                                                                          SURF(1)
