SVGX(1)                          User commands                         SVGX(1)

NAME
       svgx - extract gradients from SVG files.

SYNOPSIS
       svgx [-a] [-b rgb] [-f rgb] [-g geometry] [-h] [-l] [-n rgb] [-o file]
            [-p] [-s name] [-t type] [-T rgb] [-v] [-V] file

DESCRIPTION
       The svgx program extracts and converts gradients in an SVG file. Unlike
       most of the other file formats handled by the cptutils package, SVG
       files may contain multiple gradients, so this program operates a little
       differently to the other programs in the package.

       There are 4 modes of operation: The default is to extract the first
       gradient found in the file, or one can specify -l to list the names of
       all gradients in the file; -s to extract the gradient with the
       specified name or -a to extract all of the gradients.

       The output format is specified by the -t option as listed below (in
       fact there are several aliases for each format: jgd for psp, ggr for
       gimp, and so on). The svgcpt, svggimp, svggpt, svgcss3, svgpsp, svgpov,
       svgpng, svgqgs, svgsao, svgmap and svgsvg programs are wrappers around
       svgx which use the -t switch to specify output type.

       Atypically, the input SVG file is a mandatory argument. The program
       will write to stdout if the -o option is not specified except when -a
       has been specified: then files will be produced (with names taken from
       those of the gradients).

       Note that some of the SVG conversions require that the en_US.utf8
       locale be enabled. How this is done will depend on your operating
       system. One would run

           apt-get install locales
           dpkg-reconfigure locales

       on Debian-based systems, for example.

OPTIONS
       In the following, all rgb specifications should be of the form
       red/green/blue where the colour components are integers in the range 0
       to 255.

       -a, --all
           Extract all gradients, which will have filenames derived from the
           gradient names. If this option is used then the argument of the -o
           option will be interpreted as the output directory.

       -b, --background rgb
           Set the background colour of cpt output.

           Note that this only modifies the "background" field in the output
           cpt file, it does not affect the transparency (see the -T option in
           that regard).

       --backtrace-file path
           Specify a file to which to write a formatted backtrace. The file
           will only be created if there is a backtrace created, typically
           when an error occurs.

       --backtrace-format format
           Specify the format of the backtrace written to the files specified
           by --backtrace-file, one of plain, xml or json.

       -f, --foreground rgb
           Set the foreground colour of cpt output.

       -g, --geometry widthxheight
           Specify the size of the PNG image or SVG preview in pixels.

       -h, --help
           Brief help.

       -l, --list
           List the names of all gradients in the file.

       -n, --nan rgb
           Set the NaN (no data) colour of cpt output.

       -o, --output path
           Write the output to path, rather than stdout.

           If the -a option is specified then the path argument must be a
           directory (which exists) and the output files will be written into
           this directory.

       -p, --preview
           Include a preview in the SVG output. See also the --geometry
           option.

       --strict
           Do not create files which break limits of the format specification.
           In particular, do not create POV-Ray headers with more than 255
           stops, do not create Tecplot maps with more than 50 points.

       -s, --select name
           Extract the gradient with the specified name, see the -l output for
           a list of possible values.

       -t, --type format
           Set the output format, which should be one of cpt, css3, ggr, gpt,
           map, psp, pov, png, qgs, sao or svg.

       -T, --transparency rgb
           When converting to a format which does not support transparency,
           replace the transparency with the specified rgb colour.

       -v, --verbose
           Verbose operation.

       -V, --version
           Version information.

EXAMPLES
       Inspect an SVG file for gradients:

           svgx -v -l old.svg

       Extract the gradient "Sunny Road" from the same SVG file, converting
       the result to cpt: (note that the gradient name needs to be quoted)

           svgx -v -t cpt -s "Sunny Road" -o sunny_road.cpt old.svg

       Extract all of the svg gradients from the file kittens.svg and give
       each of them a preview:

           svgx -v -t svg -a -p kittens.svg

CAVEATS
       An ill-formed SVG gradient may be translated to rubbish while not
       reporting an error.

AUTHOR
       J. J. Green

SEE ALSO
       cptsvg(1), gimpsvg(1), pspsvg(1).

CPTUTILS                          8 July 2020                          SVGX(1)
