Svgtopam User Manual(0)                                Svgtopam User Manual(0)

NAME
       svgtopam  -  convert  an SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) image to Netpbm
       format

SYNOPSIS
       svgtopam [-trace] [pnmfile]

       Minimum unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use  dou‐
       ble  hyphens  instead  of single hyphen to denote options.  You may use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       svgtopam  reads  an  SVG  (Scalable Vector Graphics) image as input and
       produces a PAM image as output.

       svgtopam is so weak that it is probably not useful in general for  con‐
       verting  SVG images.  It understands only <path> SVG elements which use
       only the "M", "L", and "z" commands, and only those that use whole num‐
       ber  arguments.   This  is sufficient for converting most of what comes
       out of pamtosvg (not by coincidence - the program was developed for the
       specific  task  of testing pamtosvg), but the main reason it is part of
       Netpbm is to provide a base for someone to create a full SVG to  Netpbm
       converter.

       SVG is a vector image format, which means it describes curves that com‐
       pose an image.  By contrast, PNM is a raster  format,  which  means  it
       describes  dots  that  compose an image.  The main practical difference
       between the two types is that you can scale vector  images  better.   A
       vector  image  also  takes  a lot less data to describe an image if the
       image is composed of simple curves.

       That means it is really an understatement to say that  svgtopam  is  an
       image  format  converter.  It's really an image drawer, not unlike ppm‐
       draw.

       For more information on SVG, see the Worldwide Web Consortium's SVG web
       page ⟨http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/⟩ .

OPTIONS
       -trace This  option  makes svgtopam issue messages describing the draw‐
              ing.

SEE ALSO
       pamtosvg(1), pam(1),

HISTORY
       svgtopam was added to Netpbm in Version 10.34 (May 2006).

       Bryan Henderson created svgtopam to test pamtosvg.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/svgtopam.html

netpbm documentation             28 June 2017          Svgtopam User Manual(0)
