SVXREFLECTOR(1)                                                          User Manuals                                                         SVXREFLECTOR(1)

NAME
       svxreflector - The SvxLink conference server audio reflector

SYNOPSIS
       svxreflector [--help] [--version] [--daemon] [--logfile=log file] [--config=configuration file] [--pidfile=pid file] [--runasuser=user name]

DESCRIPTION
       The  SvxReflector  server  is  used to interconnect multiple SvxLink nodes into one network. Traffic is switched using talk groups in the SvxReflector
       server so that all audio sent to the reflector from one node is retransmitted on all other nodes that have selected the  same  talk  group.  Only  one
       talker  is  allowed  at a time on each talk group so if another node starts sending audio when another one is already active, the second node will not
       interrupt the first talker.

       A TCP/IP connection is used for the control messages and the audio is transported via UDP. Make sure to open up the configured TCP and  UDP  ports  in
       your  firewall for incoming traffic on the server. By default the port number is set to 5300 for both TCP and UDP. The clients do not have to open any
       ports in their firewall. Each node must have a unique user ID, typically the callsign.  It is not allowed for a client, using the  same  user  ID,  to
       connect  more  than  one time to the server. The connections are protected by using X.509 certificates. See HANDLING X.509 CERTIFICATES below for more
       info.

       On the SvxLink node side, a ReflectorLogic is used to connect to the SvxReflector server. The connection to the SvxReflector from other logics in that
       node can be activated and deactivated using standard logic linking. Read more about how to set up a SvxLink node for use with the SvxReflector in  the
       svxlink.conf(5) manual page.

       The  SvxReflector offer a QSY functionality which is used to switch all active nodes to another talk group. This can be used to make a call on a broad
       talk group, like a large region or the entire country, and when the called party answers a QSY can be performed to a talk group where only the  active
       nodes are included. The reflector may also be configured to initiate an automatic QSY after a specified duration on certain talk groups.

OPTIONS
       --help Print a help message and exit.

       --daemon
              Start the SvxReflector server as a daemon.

       --runasuser
              Start SvxReflector as the specified user. The switch to the new user will happen after the log and pid files has been opened.

       --logfile=log file
              Specify a log file to put all output into. Both stdout and stderr will be redirected to the log file.

       --pidfile=pid file
              Specify a pid file to write the process ID into.

       --config=configuration file
              Specify which configuration file to use.

       --version
              Print the version of the application.

HANDLING X.509 CERTIFICATES
       X.509 certificates and TLS, the same technologies used to secure internet connections in general, are used to authenticate nodes connecting to the re‐
       flector  server. It's a complex technology but as much as possible has been done to hide that complexity in SvxReflector to make operating the reflec‐
       tor system easy.

       A node owner does not have to understand the certificate technology at all really but a reflector sysop need to understand the basics to  be  able  to
       operate the reflector and to be able to resolve authentication problems.

       The  first thing to understand is that public-key cryptography is used. You will see the term PKI in SvxLink which is short for Public Key Infrastruc‐
       ture. To use public-key cryptography a key pair is needed, a secret private key and a non-secret public key. In SvxLink the key pair is  stored  in  a
       file with the extension ".key". Those files must be kept secret since anyone that have access to the secret key can act as the rightful owner.

       A certificate is nothing but a small amount of information secured using public-key cryptography. That make it possible to verify that the information
       in the certificate is valid. An X.509 certificate always have a start date and an end date. The certificate will only verify as valid when the current
       time  is  within  those two dates. When a certificate has less than 1/3 of its lifetime left the reflector server will renew the certificate automati‐
       cally.  Other than that the most important information in the certificate is the node callsign. An email address is also good to have in the  certifi‐
       cate  but  only  the  callsign is required. The callsign is stored in a certificate field called subject Common Name (CN). Certificates in SvxLink are
       stored in files with the extension ".crt".

       A certificate is created by signing a Certificate Signing Request (CSR). The CSR is automatically generated by a node and sent to the  reflector  when
       needed.   If  configured  (see CERT_CA_HOOK), the reflector sysop will be notified when a new CSR is received.  The reflector sysop should then verify
       that the CSR contains the correct information and that the requesting node has the right to use the given callsign. The latter task is the  hard  part
       and that procedure needs to be figured out by the reflector sysop. In SvxLink a CSR is stored in a file with the extension ".csr".

       The  last  piece  of information that is important to know about X.509 certificates is that a chain of certificates are used to form the secure infra‐
       structure. In SvxLink there is a root certificate and a signing certificate. The root certificate is used to sign the signing certificate. The signing
       certificate is used to sign all other certificates, both for the nodes and the server certificate used by the reflector itself.

       In SvxLink, both on the node side and the server side, PKI files are by default stored in the directory /var/lib/svxlink/pki. Nodes  store  all  their
       PKI  files  flat  in that directory. On the reflector server there are a subdirectory for each type of file: private (for keys), csrs and certs. There
       also is a pending_csrs subdirectory for incoming CSRs that have not been signed yet. When a CSR has been signed it will be moved to the csrs subdirec‐
       tory.

       Signing a CSR on the reflector server is done through a COMMAND_PTY command:

         echo CA SIGN callsign > /dev/shm/reflector_ctrl

FILES
       /etc/svxlink/svxreflector.conf
              The system wide configuration file. See svxreflector.conf(5) for further details.

       ~/.svxlink/svxreflector.conf
              Per user configuration file. See svxreflector.conf(5) for further details.

       /etc/svxlink/svxreflector.d/*
              Additional configuration files. This directory is setup by the CFG_DIR configuration variable.

ENVIRONMENT
       HOME   Used to find the per user configuration file.

AUTHOR
       Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at svxlink dot org>

REPORTING BUGS
       Bugs should be reported using the issue tracker at https://github.com/sm0svx/svxlink.

       Questions  about  SvxLink  should  not  be  asked  using  the  issue  tracker.  Instead  use  the  group  set  up  for  this  purpose  at   groups.io:
       https://groups.io/g/svxlink

SEE ALSO
       svxreflector.conf(5), svxlink(1), svxlink.conf(5),

Linux                                                                      MAY 2025                                                           SVXREFLECTOR(1)
