swarm(1)                                                                                       USER COMMANDS                                                                                       swarm(1)

NAME
       swarm — find clusters of nearly-identical nucleotide amplicons

SYNOPSIS
       swarm -h|v

       High-precision clustering:

       swarm [filename]

       swarm [-d 1] [-nrz] [-a int] [-i filename] [-j filename] [-l filename] [-o filename] [-s filename] [-t int] [-u filename] [-w filename] [filename]

       swarm [-d 1] -f [-nrz] [-a int] [-b int] [-c|y int] [-i filename] [-j filename] [-l filename] [-o filename] [-s filename] [-t int] [-u filename] [-w filename] [filename]

       Conservative clustering:

       swarm -d 2+ [-nrxz] [-a int] [-e int] [-g int] [-i filename] [-l filename] [-m int] [-o filename] [-p int] [-s filename] [-t int] [-u filename] [-w filename] [filename]

       Dereplication (merge strictly identical sequences):

       swarm -d 0 [-rz] [-a int] [-i filename] [-l filename] [-o filename] [-s filename] [-u filename] [-w filename] [filename]

DESCRIPTION
       Environmental  or  clinical  molecular  studies  generate large volumes of amplicons (e.g., 16S or 18S SSU-rRNA sequences) that need to be grouped into clusters. Traditional clustering methods are
       based on greedy, input-order dependent algorithms, with arbitrary selection of cluster centroids and cluster limits (often 97%-similarity). To address that problem, we developed swarm, a fast  and
       robust  method  that  recursively  groups  amplicons with d or less differences (i.e. substitutions, insertions or deletions). swarm produces natural and stable clusters centered on local peaks of
       abundance, mostly free from input-order dependency induced by centroid selection.

       Exact clustering is impractical on large data sets when using a naïve all-vs-all approach (more precisely a 2-combination without repetitions), as it implies unrealistic numbers of  pairwise  com‐
       parisons.  swarm  is  based on a maximum number of differences d between two amplicons, and focuses only on very close local relationships. For d = 1, the default value, swarm uses an algorithm of
       linear complexity that generates all possible single mutations and performs exact-string matching by comparing hash-values. For d = 2 or greater, swarm uses an algorithm  of  quadratic  complexity
       that  performs pairwise string comparisons. An efficient k-mer-based filtering and an astute use of comparisons results obtained during the clustering process allows swarm to avoid most of the am‐
       plicon comparisons needed in a naïve approach. To speed up the remaining amplicon comparisons, swarm implements an extremely fast Needleman-Wunsch algorithm making use of the Streaming SIMD Exten‐
       sions (SSE2) of x86-64 CPUs, NEON instructions of ARM64 CPUs, or Altivec/VMX instructions of POWER8 CPUs. If SSE2 instructions are not available, swarm exits with an error message.

       swarm can read nucleotide amplicons in fasta format from a normal file or from the standard input (using a pipe or a redirection). The amplicon header is defined as the  string  comprised  between
       the  '>'  symbol  and the first space or the end of the line, whichever comes first. Each header must end with an abundance annotation representing the amplicon copy number and defined as '_' fol‐
       lowed by a positive integer. See option -z for input data using usearch/vsearch's abundance annotation format (';size=integer[;]'). Once stripped from the abundance annotation, the remaining  part
       of the header is call the label. In summary, using regular expression patterns:

                                                                              >header[[:blank:]]   and   header = label_[1-9][0-9]*$

       Abundance annotations play a crucial role in the clustering process, and swarm exits with an error message if that information is not available. As swarm outputs lists of amplicon labels, amplicon
       labels  must  be  unique to avoid any ambiguity; swarm exits with an error message if labels are not unique. The amplicon sequence is defined as a string of [ACGT] or [ACGU] symbols (case insensi‐
       tive, 'U' is replaced with 'T' internally), starting after the end of the header line and ending before the next header line or the file end; swarm silently removes newline symbols ('\n' or  '\r')
       and exits with an error message if any other symbol is present. Accepted sequence lengths range from 1 nucleotide to 67 million nucleotides. Please note that processing 67-Mb sequences requires at
       least 32 gigabytes of memory. Lastly, if sequences are not all unique, i.e. were not properly dereplicated, swarm will exit with an error message.

       Clusters  are  written  to  output files (specified with -i, -o, -s and -u) by decreasing abundance of their seed sequences, and then by alphabetical order of seed sequence labels. An exception to
       that is the -w (--seeds) output, which is sorted by decreasing cluster abundance (sum of abundances of all sequences in the cluster), and then by alphabetical order of seed sequence  labels.  This
       is particularly useful for post-clustering steps, such as de novo chimera detection, that require clusters to be sorted by decreasing abundances.

   General options
       -h, --help
                display this help and exit successfully.

       -t, --threads positive integer
                number of computation threads to use. Values between 1 and 512 are accepted, but we recommend to use a number of threads lesser or equal to the number of available CPU cores. Default num‐
                ber of threads is 1.

       -v, --version
                output version information and exit successfully.

       --       delimit the option list. Later arguments, if any, are treated as operands even if they begin with '-'. For example, 'swarm -- -file.fasta' reads from the file '-file.fasta'.

   Clustering options
       -d, --differences zero or positive integer
                maximum  number of differences allowed between two amplicons, meaning that two amplicons will be grouped if they have integer (or less) differences. This is swarm's most important parame‐
                ter. The number of differences is calculated as the number of mismatches (substitutions, insertions or deletions) between the two amplicons once the optimal pairwise global alignment  has
                been found (see 'pairwise alignment advanced options' to influence that step).

                Any  integer from 0 to 255 can be used, but high d values will decrease the taxonomical resolution of swarm results. Commonly used d values are 1, 2 or 3, rarely higher. When using d = 0,
                swarm will output results corresponding to a strict dereplication of the dataset, i.e. merging identical amplicons. Warning, whatever the d value, swarm requires fasta entries to  present
                abundance values. Default number of differences d is 1.

       -n, --no-otu-breaking
                when working with d = 1, deactivate the built-in cluster refinement (not recommended). Amplicon abundance values are used to identify transitions among in-contact clusters and to separate
                them,  yielding higher-resolution clustering results. That option prevents that separation, and in practice, allows the creation of a link between amplicons A and B, even if the abundance
                of B is higher than the abundance of A.

   Fastidious options
       -b, --boundary positive integer
                when using the option --fastidious (-f), define the minimum abundance of what should be considered a large cluster. By default, a cluster with a total abundance of 3 or more is considered
                large. Conversely, a cluster is small if it has a total abundance of 2 or less, meaning that it is composed of either one amplicon of abundance 2, or two amplicons of abundance 1, or  one
                amplicon  of abundance 1. Any positive value greater than 1 can be specified. Using higher boundary values can reduce the number of clusters (up to a point), and will reduce the taxonomi‐
                cal resolution of swarm results. It will also slightly increase computation time.

       -c, --ceiling positive integer
                when using the option --fastidious (-f), define swarm's maximum memory footprint (in megabytes). swarm will adjust the --bloom-bits (-y) value of the Bloom filter to fit within the speci‐
                fied amount of memory. Values accepted range from 40 to 1,073,741,824 megabytes. See the --bloom-bits (-y) option for an alternative way to control the memory footprint.

       -f, --fastidious
                when working with d = 1, perform a second clustering pass to reduce the number of small clusters (recommended option). During the first clustering pass, an intermediate  amplicon  can  be
                missing for purely stochastic reasons, interrupting the aggregation process. The fastidious option will create virtual amplicons, allowing to graft small clusters upon larger ones. By de‐
                fault, a cluster is considered large if it has a total abundance of 3 or more (see the --boundary option to modify that value).

                To speed things up, swarm uses a Bloom filter to store intermediate results. Warning, the second clustering pass can be 2 to 3 times slower than the first pass and requires much more mem‐
                ory to store the virtual amplicons in Bloom filters. See the options --bloom-bits (-y) or --ceiling (-c) to control the memory footprint of the Bloom filter.

                The  fastidious  option modifies clustering results: the output files produced by the options --log (-l), --output-file (-o), --mothur (-r), --uclust-file, and --seeds (-w) are updated to
                reflect these modifications; the file --statistics-file (-s) is partially updated (columns 6 and 7 are not updated); the output file --internal-structure (-i) is partially updated (column
                5 is not updated for amplicons that belonged to the small cluster).

       -y, --bloom-bits positive integer
                when using the option --fastidious (-f), define the size (in bits) of each entry in the Bloom filter. That option allows to balance the efficiency (i.e. speed) and the memory footprint of
                the Bloom filter. Large values will make the Bloom filter more efficient but will require more memory. Any value between 2 and 64 can be used. Default value is 16. See the --ceiling  (-c)
                option for an alternative way to control the memory footprint.

   Input/output options
       -a, --append-abundance positive integer
                set  abundance  value to use when some or all amplicons in the input file lack abundance values (_integer, or ;size=integer; when using -z). Warning, it is not recommended to use swarm on
                datasets where abundance values are all identical. We provide that option as a courtesy to advanced users, please use it carefully. swarm exits with an error message if  abundance  values
                are missing and if this option is not used.

       -i, --internal-structure filename
                output all pairs of nearly-identical amplicons to filename using a five-column tab-delimited format:

                       1.  amplicon A label (header without abundance annotations).

                       2.  amplicon B label (header without abundance annotations).

                       3.  number of differences between amplicons A and B (positive integer).

                       4.  cluster  number  (positive integer). Clusters are numbered in their order of delineation, starting from 1. All pairs of amplicons belonging to the same cluster will receive the
                           same number.

                       5.  cummulated number of steps from the cluster seed to amplicon B (positive integer). When using the option --fastidious (-f), the actual number of steps between grafted amplicons
                           and the cluster seed cannot be re-computed efficiently and is always set to 2 for the amplicon pair linking the small cluster to the large cluster. Cummulated number  of  steps
                           in the small cluster (if any) are left unchanged.

       -j, --network-file filename
                (advanced  users)  when working with d = 1, dump raw amplicon network to filename using a two-column tab-delimited table of headers with abundance annotations. Each line represents a con‐
                nection between two similar amplicons, from the most abundant to the lesser abundant. When amplicons have the same abundance value, connections are bi-directional and are  represented  on
                two lines: A to B, then B to A.

                In  order to delineate clusters and to compute the equivalent of a minimal spanning tree for each cluster (see option --internal-structure), swarm first builds a network of similar ampli‐
                cons. This option is for advanced users who would like to explore this raw network.

       -l, --log filename
                output all messages to filename instead of standard error, with the exception of error messages of course. That option is useful in situations where writing to standard error is  problem‐
                atic (for example, with certain job schedulers).

       -o, --output-file filename
                output  clustering results to filename. Results consist of a list of clusters, one cluster per line. A cluster is a list of amplicon headers separated by spaces. That output format can be
                modified by the option --mothur (-r). Default is to write to standard output.

       -r, --mothur
                output clustering results in a format compatible with Mothur. That option modifies swarm's default output format.

       -s, --statistics-file filename
                output statistics to filename. The file is a tab-separated table with one cluster per row and seven columns of information:

                       1.  number of unique amplicons in the cluster,

                       2.  total abundance of amplicons in the cluster,

                       3.  label of the initial seed (header without abundance annotations),

                       4.  abundance of the initial seed,

                       5.  number of amplicons with an abundance of 1 in the cluster,

                       6.  maximum number of iterations before the cluster reached its natural limit,

                       7.  cummulated number of steps along the path joining the seed and the furthermost amplicon in the cluster. Please note that the actual number of differences between the  seed  and
                           the furthermost amplicon is usually much smaller. When using the option --fastidious (-f), grafted amplicons are not taken into account.

       -u, --uclust-file filename
                output  clustering  results  in  filename using a tab-separated uclust-like format with 10 columns and 3 different type of entries (S, H or C). That option does not modify swarm's default
                output format. Each fasta sequence in the input file can be either a cluster centroid (S) or a hit (H) assigned to a cluster. Cluster records (C) summarize information  for  each  cluster
                (number of hits, centroid header). Column content varies with the type of entry (S, H or C):

                       1.  Record type: S, H, or C.

                       2.  Cluster number (zero-based).

                       3.  Centroid length (S), query length (H), or number of hits (C).

                       4.  Percentage of similarity with the centroid sequence (H), or set to '*' (S, C).

                       5.  Match orientation + or - (H), or set to '*' (S, C).

                       6.  Not used, always set to '*' (S, C) or to zero (H).

                       7.  Not used, always set to '*' (S, C) or to zero (H).

                       8.  set  to  '*'  (S, C) or, for H, compact representation of the pairwise alignment using the CIGAR format (Compact Idiosyncratic Gapped Alignment Report): M (match), D (deletion)
                           and I (insertion). The equal sign '=' indicates that the query is identical to the centroid sequence.

                       9.  Header of the query sequence (H), or of the centroid sequence (S, C).

                       10. Header of the centroid sequence (H), or set to '*' (S, C).

       -w, --seeds filename
                output cluster representative sequences to filename in fasta format. The abundance value of each cluster representative is the sum of the abundances of all the amplicons in  the  cluster.
                Fasta  headers  are  formated as follows: '>label_integer', or '>label;size=integer;' if the -z option is used, and sequences are uppercased. Sequences are sorted by decreasing abundance,
                and then by alphabetical order of sequence labels.

       -z, --usearch-abundance
                accept amplicon abundance values in usearch/vsearch's style (>label;size=integer[;]). That option influences the abundance annotation style used in swarm's standard output (-o),  as  well
                as the output of options -r, -u and -w.

   Pairwise alignment advanced options
       when using d > 1, swarm recognizes advanced command-line options modifying the pairwise global alignment scoring parameters:

              -m, --match-reward positive integer
                       Default reward for a nucleotide match is 5.

              -p, --mismatch-penalty positive integer
                       Default penalty for a nucleotide mismatch is 4.

              -g, --gap-opening-penalty positive integer
                       Default gap opening penalty is 12.

              -e, --gap-extension-penalty positive integer
                       Default gap extension penalty is 4.

              -x, --disable-sse3
                       On the x86-64 CPU architecture, disable SSE3 and later instructions. This option is meant for developers, not for regular users.

       As swarm focuses on close relationships (e.g., d = 2 or 3), clustering results are resilient to pairwise alignment model parameters modifications. When clustering using a higher d value, modifying
       model parameters has a stronger impact.

EXAMPLES
       Clusterize the compressed data set myfile.fasta using the finest resolution possible (1 difference by default, built-in breaking, fastidious option) using 4 computation threads. Clusters are writ‐
       ten to the file myfile.swarms, and cluster representatives are written to myfile.representatives.fasta:
              zcat myfile.fasta.gz | \
                  swarm \
                      -t 4 \
                      -f \
                      -w myfile.representatives.fasta \
                      -o myfile.swarms

AUTHORS
       Concept by Frédéric Mahé, implementation by Torbjørn Rognes.

CITATION
       Mahé F, Rognes T, Quince C, de Vargas C, Dunthorn M. (2014) Swarm: robust and fast clustering method for amplicon-based studies.  PeerJ 2:e593 https://doi.org/10.7717/peerj.593.

       Mahé F, Rognes T, Quince C, de Vargas C, Dunthorn M. (2015) Swarm v2: highly-scalable and high-resolution amplicon clustering.  PeerJ 3:e1420 https://doi.org/10.7717/peerj.1420.

       Mahé F, Czech L, Stamatakis A, Quince C, de Vargas C, Dunthorn M, Rognes T. (2021) Swarm v3: towards tera-scale amplicon clustering.  Bioinformatics https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btab493.

REPORTING BUGS
       Submit  suggestions  and  bug-reports  at  https://github.com/torognes/swarm/issues, send a pull request at https://github.com/torognes/swarm/pulls, or compose a friendly or curmudgeonly e-mail to
       Frédéric Mahé and Torbjørn Rognes.

AVAILABILITY
       Source code and binaries available at https://github.com/torognes/swarm.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2012-2024 Frédéric Mahé & Torbjørn Rognes

       This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version  3  of
       the License, or any later version.

       This  program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Af‐
       fero General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along with this program.  If not, see https://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

SEE ALSO
       swipe, an extremely fast Smith-Waterman database search tool by Torbjørn Rognes (available at https://github.com/torognes/swipe).

       vsearch, an open-source re-implementation of the classic uclust clustering method (by Robert C. Edgar), along with other amplicon filtering and searching tools. vsearch is implemented by  Torbjørn
       Rognes and documented by Frédéric Mahé, and is available at https://github.com/torognes/vsearch.

VERSION HISTORY
       New features and important modifications of swarm (short lived or minor bug releases are not mentioned):

              v3.1.5 released March 31, 2024
                     Version  3.1.5  changes the minimal value for the ceiling option from 8 megabytes to 40 megabytes, and fixes four minor bugs. Warning, peak RSS memory increased by 5 to 10% when d >=
                     2. Version 3.1.5 improves documentation (now covering option --network_file), adds more compilation checks and eliminates 50 compilation warnings with GCC 13, GCC 14 and clang 19, as
                     well as 1,677 static analysis warnings.

              v3.1.4 released September 20, 2023
                     Version 3.1.4 fixes a minor bug. It eliminates compilation warnings with GCC 13 and clang 18, as well as 1,040 static analysis warnings. The maximal number of threads swarm  can  run
                     is now 512, instead of 256. Compilation with runtime checks (`-DNDEBUG`) is now the default. When d > 1, overall memory allocations remain unchanged, but peak RSS memory increased by
                     6 to 10%, due to a change in the timing of memory deallocations. Peak RSS memory is expected to regress to its prior levels as refactoring continues.

              v3.1.3 released December 5, 2022
                     Version  3.1.3  fixes  a regression introduced in version 3.1.1 (memory over-allocation when d > 1). It also fixes a minor off-by-one error when allocating memory for a Bloom filter,
                     compilation warnings with GCC 12 and clang 13, as well as static analysis warnings. Documentation was improved, as well as our test suite (swarm-tests).

              v3.1.2 released November 10, 2022
                     Fix a bug with fastidious mode introduced in version 3.1.1, that could cause Swarm to crash. Probably due to allocating too much memory.

              v3.1.1 released September 29, 2022
                     Version 3.1.1 eliminates a risk of segmentation fault with extremely long sequence headers. Documentation and error messages have been improved, and code cleaning continued.

              v3.1.0 released March 1, 2021
                     Version 3.1.0 includes a fix for a bug in the 16-bit SIMD alignment code that was exposed with a combination of d>1, long sequences, and very high gap penalties. The  code  has  also
                     been been cleaned up, tested and improved substantially, and it is now fully C++11 compliant. Support for macOS on Apple Silicon (ARM64) has been added.

              v3.0.0 released October 24, 2019
                     Version  3.0.0 introduces a faster algorithm for d = 1, and a reduced memory footprint. Swarm has been ported to Windows x86-64, GNU/Linux ARM 64, and GNU/Linux POWER8. Internal code
                     has been modernized, hardened, and thoroughly tested. Strict dereplication of input sequences is now mandatory. The --seeds option (-w) now outputs results sorted by decreasing abun‐
                     dance, and then by alphabetical order of sequence labels.

              v2.2.2 released December 12, 2017
                     Version 2.2.2 fixes a bug that would cause swarm to wait forever in very rare cases when multiple threads were used.

              v2.2.1 released October 27, 2017
                     Version 2.2.1 fixes a memory allocation bug for d = 1 and duplicated sequences.

              v2.2.0 released October 17, 2017
                     Version 2.2.0 fixes several problems and improves usability. Corrected output to structure and uclust files when using fastidious mode. Corrected  abundance  output  in  some  cases.
                     Added check for duplicated sequences and fixed check for duplicated sequence IDs. Checks for empty sequences. Sorts sequences by additional fields to improve stability. Improves com‐
                     patibility  with compilers and operating systems.  Outputs sequences in upper case. Allows 64-bit abundances. Shows message when waiting for input from stdin. Improves error messages
                     and warnings. Improves checking of command line options. Fixes remaining errors reported by test suite. Updates documentation.

              v2.1.13 released March 8, 2017
                     Version 2.1.13 removes a bug with the progress bar when writing seeds.

              v2.1.12 released January 16, 2017
                     Version 2.1.12 removes a debugging message.

              v2.1.11 released January 16, 2017
                     Version 2.1.11 fixes two bugs related to the SIMD implementation of alignment that might result in incorrect alignments and scores.  The bug only applies when d > 1.

              v2.1.10 released December 22, 2016
                     Version 2.1.10 fixes two bugs related to gap penalties of alignments.  The first bug may lead to wrong aligments and similarity percentages reported in UCLUST (.uc) files. The second
                     bug makes swarm use a slightly higher gap extension penalty than specified. The default gap extension penalty used have actually been 4.5 instead of 4.

              v2.1.9 released July 6, 2016
                     Version 2.1.9 fixes errors when compiling with GCC version 6.

              v2.1.8 released March 11, 2016
                     Version 2.1.8 fixes a rare bug triggered when clustering extremely short undereplicated sequences. Also, alignment parameters are not shown when d = 1.

              v2.1.7 released February 24, 2016
                     Version 2.1.7 fixes a bug in the output of seeds with the -w option when d > 1 that was not properly fixed in version 2.1.6. It also handles ascii character #13 (CR) in  FASTA  files
                     better. Swarm will now exit with status 0 if the -h or the -v option is specified. The help text and some error messages have been improved.

              v2.1.6 released December 14, 2015
                     Version 2.1.6 fixes problems with older compilers that do not have the x86intrin.h header file. It also fixes a bug in the output of seeds with the -w option when d > 1.

              v2.1.5 released September 8, 2015
                     Version 2.1.5 fixes minor bugs.

              v2.1.4 released September 4, 2015
                     Version 2.1.4 fixes minor bugs in the swarm algorithm used for d = 1.

              v2.1.3 released August 28, 2015
                     Version 2.1.3 adds checks of numeric option arguments.

              v2.1.1 released March 31, 2015
                     Version 2.1.1 fixes a bug with the fastidious option that caused it to ignore some connections between large and small clusters.

              v2.1.0 released March 24, 2015
                     Version 2.1.0 marks the first official release of swarm v2.

              v2.0.7 released March 18, 2015
                     Version 2.0.7 writes abundance information in usearch style when using options -w (--seeds) in combination with -z (--usearch-abundance).

              v2.0.6 released March 13, 2015
                     Version 2.0.6 fixes a minor bug.

              v2.0.5 released March 13, 2015
                     Version  2.0.5  improves  the implementation of the fastidious option and adds options to control memory usage of the Bloom filter (-y and -c).  In addition, an option (-w) allows to
                     output cluster representatives sequences with updated abundances (sum of all abundances inside each cluster). This version also enables swarm to run with d = 0.

              v2.0.4 released March 6, 2015
                     Version 2.0.4 includes a fully parallelised implementation of the fastidious option.

              v2.0.3 released March 4, 2015
                     Version 2.0.3 includes a working implementation of the fastidious option, but only the initial clustering is parallelized.

              v2.0.2 released February 26, 2015
                     Version 2.0.2 fixes SSSE3 problems.

              v2.0.1 released February 26, 2015
                     Version 2.0.1 is a development version that contains a partial implementation of the fastidious option, but it is not usable yet.

              v2.0.0 released December 3, 2014
                     Version 2.0.0 is faster and easier to use, providing new output options (--internal-structure and --log), new  control  options  (--boundary,  --fastidious,  --no-otu-breaking),  and
                     built-in  cluster  refinement  (no  need  to use the python script anymore). When using default parameters, a novel and considerably faster algorithmic approach is used, guaranteeing
                     swarm's scalability.

              v1.2.21 released February 26, 2015
                     Version 1.2.21 is supposed to fix some problems related to the use of the SSSE3 CPU instructions which are not always available.

              v1.2.20 released November 6, 2014
                     Version 1.2.20 presents a production-ready version of the alternative algorithm (option -a), with optional built-in cluster breaking (option -n).  That  alternative  algorithmic  ap‐
                     proach  (usable  only with d = 1) is considerably faster than currently used clustering algorithms, and can deal with datasets of 100 million unique amplicons or more in a few hours.
                     Of course, results are rigourously identical to the results previously produced with swarm. That release also introduces new options to control swarm output (options -i and -l).

              v1.2.19 released October 3, 2014
                     Version 1.2.19 fixes a problem related to abundance information when the sequence label includes multiple underscore characters.

              v1.2.18 released September 29, 2014
                     Version 1.2.18 reenables the possibility of reading sequences from stdin if no file name is specified on the command line. It also fixes a bug related to CPU features detection.

              v1.2.17 released September 28, 2014
                     Version 1.2.17 fixes a memory allocation bug introduced in version 1.2.15.

              v1.2.16 released September 27, 2014
                     Version 1.2.16 fixes a bug in the abundance sort introduced in version 1.2.15.

              v1.2.15 released September 27, 2014
                     Version 1.2.15 sorts the input sequences in order of decreasing abundance unless they are detected to be sorted already. When using the alternative algorithm for d = 1 it also  sorts
                     all subseeds in order of decreasing abundance.

              v1.2.14 released September 27, 2014
                     Version 1.2.14 fixes a bug in the output with the --swarm_breaker option (-b) when using the alternative algorithm (-a).

              v1.2.12 released August 18, 2014
                     Version  1.2.12 introduces an option --alternative-algorithm to use an extremely fast, experimental clustering algorithm for the special case d = 1. Multithreading scalability of the
                     default algorithm has been noticeably improved.

              v1.2.10 released August 8, 2014
                     Version 1.2.10 allows amplicon abundances to be specified using the usearch style in the sequence header (e.g. '>id;size=1') when the -z option is chosen.

              v1.2.8 released August 5, 2014
                     Version 1.2.8 fixes an error with the gap extension penalty. Previous versions used a gap penalty twice as large as intended. That bug correction induces small changes in  clustering
                     results.

              v1.2.6 released May 23, 2014
                     Version  1.2.6  introduces  an  option  --mothur  to  output  clustering  results  in  a  format  compatible  with  the  microbial  ecology community analysis software suite Mothur (
                     https://www.mothur.org/).

              v1.2.5 released April 11, 2014
                     Version 1.2.5 removes the need for a POPCNT hardware instruction to be present. swarm now automatically checks whether POPCNT is available and uses a slightly slower software  imple‐
                     mentation if not. Only basic SSE2 instructions are now required to run swarm.

              v1.2.4 released January 30, 2014
                     Version  1.2.4  introduces  an  option  --break-swarms  to  output  all  pairs  of  amplicons  with  d  differences  to  standard  error.  That option is used by the companion script
                     `swarm_breaker.py` to refine swarm results. The syntax of the inline assembly code is changed for compatibility with more compilers.

              v1.2 released May 16, 2013
                     Version 1.2 greatly improves speed by using alignment-free comparisons of amplicons based on k-mer word content. For each amplicon, the presence-absence of  all  possible  5-mers  is
                     computed and recorded in a 1024-bits vector. Vector comparisons are extremely fast and drastically reduce the number of costly pairwise alignments performed by swarm. While remaining
                     exact, swarm 1.2 can be more than 100-times faster than swarm 1.1, when using a single thread with a large set of sequences. The minor version 1.1.1, published just before, adds com‐
                     patibility with Apple computers, and corrects an issue in the pairwise global alignment step that could lead to sub-optimal alignments.

              v1.1 released February 26, 2013
                     Version  1.1  introduces  two new important options: the possibility to output clustering results using the uclust output format, and the possibility to output detailed statistics on
                     each cluster. swarm 1.1 is also faster: new filterings based on pairwise amplicon sequence lengths and composition comparisons reduce the number of  pairwise  alignments  needed  and
                     speed up the clustering.

              v1.0 released November 10, 2012
                     First public release.

version 3.1.5                                                                                  March 31, 2024                                                                                      swarm(1)
