SWISSWATCH(1)                                                                             General Commands Manual                                                                             SWISSWATCH(1)

NAME
       swisswatch - the mother of all X Toolkit clocks

SYNOPSIS
       swisswatch [-option ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Swisswatch is an analog clock for X that is highly customizable by means of resources.

SYNOPSIS
       Handles minute-hand display correctly when ticking more often than once a minute.

       Handles arbitrary number of hands and/or mark specifications.

OPTIONS
       -fg foreground color
               choose a different color for the hands and marks.

       -bg background color
               choose a different color for the background.

       -tick time
               the interval between updates of the display.  This should be a positive floating-point number.

       -geometry geometry
               define the initial window geometry; see X(1).

       -display display
               specify the display to use; see X(1).

       -noshape
               causes the clock to not reshape itself and ancestors to exactly fit the outline of the clock.

       -railroad

       -sbb

       -cff

       -ffs    causes the second and minute hands to behave differently at the turn of the minute.  This mode tries to mimic the Look and Feel of the swiss federal railway clocks.

RESOURCES
       .tickTime / .TickTime
               Time between ticks, in seconds.  The hands will move this often.  (All hands have their positions recomputed and redrawn each time the clock ticks.)  This is a floating-point value, though
               values less than the system's clock resolution will not work very well. Ticks occur precisely on the appropriate boundary, regardless of when the program was started; for example, if tick‐
               Time is 5, ticks occur precisely when gettimeofday().tv_sec%5 changes.

       .numMarks / .NumMarks
               Number of sets of marks around the clock face.

       .child_n.cycle / .Mark.Cycle / .Hand.Cycle
               For a mark, the number of marks in set n.  For a hand, the number of ticks corresponding to one complete turn of the hand.

       .child_n.outsideEnd / .Mark.OutsideEnd
               Outside end of marks in set n, as a radial distance.

       .child_n.length / .Mark.Length
               Length of marks in set n; the marks extend from the outsideEnd position inward for this distance.

       .child_n.phase / .Mark.Phase
               Phase  of mark set n.  This specifies a rotation of the whole set of marks.  The default is 0, which specifies that a mark appear at the straight-up ("12-o'clock") position, with the other
               number-1 marks (if any) spaced evenly around the face.  If phase is nonzero, it specifies a rotation of the entire set of marks clockwise.  The value is the rotation, as a fraction of  the
               distance from one mark to the next. For example, any integer value will have no visible effect (any desired effect corresponds to some value in [0..1]).  Experimentation is recommended.

       .child_n.centerX / .Mark.CenterX

       .child_n.centerY / .Mark.CenterY
               These  specify where on the clock face the center of the circle formed by the marks is to be.  The X and Y coordinates are scaled so that the bounding square of the clock face is [-1..1] x
               [-1..1].  This allows for placing circles of marks centered at points other than the center of the clock face; this is useful primarily in conjunction with the  corresponding  options  for
               hands.

       .child_n.foreground / .Mark.Foreground
               Color used to draw a mark or hand.

       .nChildren / .NChildren
               Number of hands and marks on the clock.

       .child_n.class
               The class of the hand or mark, currently only "Hand" and "Mark" are supported.

       .child_n.width / .Hand.Width
               The  width of the hand.  For triangular hands, this is the width of the base; for rectangular hands, this is the width of the rectangle; and for circular hands, this is the diameter of the
               circle.  If the width of a triangular or rectangular outline hand is zero, the hand is drawn as a single line instead of the full shape.

       .child_n.shape / .Hand.Shape
               The shape of the hand.  Hands can be triangular, rectangular, or circular; the allowed values are "triangle", "rectangle", "circle", "triangular", "rectangular", and  "circular".   Illegal
               values produce a complaint and a default is used.

       .child_n.render / .Hand.Render
               The  rendition of the hand.  Hands can be drawn as outlines or as filled shapes; the allowed values are "outline", "fill", "outlined", and "filled".  Illegal values produce a complaint and
               a default is used.

       .child_n.strokeWidth / .Hand.StrokeWidth
               The width of strokes used to draw the hand, when the hand is drawn in a way that uses strokes.  A value of 0 uses so-called "thin" lines, which are often faster.

       .child_n.strokeWidthR / .Hand.StrokeWidthR
               If a non-zero floating point number is specified, the stroke width will always be the product of this number and the clock's outer radius (in x direction if it is an ellipsis).

       .child_n.cap / .Hand.Cap
               The line cap style used when drawing hands. This produces no visual effect except when drawing triangular or rectangular hands of width 0.  Legal values  are  "notlast",  "butt",  "round",
               "projecting", "capnotlast", "capbutt", "capround", and "capprojecting".

       .child_n.join / .Hand.Join
               The line join style used when drawing hands.  Legal values are "miter", "round", "bevel", "joinmiter", joinround", and "joinbevel".

       .child_n.cycle / .Hand.Cycle
               The  number  of  seconds it takes for the hand to circle around the face once.  For example, a normal second hand will give 60, a normal minute hand 3600.  If this is small compared to the
               tickTime value, the hand will move by visually large amounts each tick; this may or may not be desirable.  The value may be floating-point.

       .child_n.phase / .Hand.Phase
               An offset applied to the time of day before computing the hand position.  To determine the position of a hand, the following is computed:

               ((now - tz - phase) % cycle) / cycle

               where `now' is the current time of day (obtained with time(3)), tz is a correction factor for the timezone as found in the tm_gmtoff field of the structure returned by localtime(3)), phase
               is the value of the phase resource for the hand, and cycle is the value of the cycle resource for the hand.  The result is a number from 0 to 1, which is mapped into an  angular  position,
               with 0 being straight up, .25 being straight right, .5 being straight down, etc.

               The  simplest way to determine the desired phase value for a hand is to experiment.  It is usually obvious that the value should be a multiple of something like 3600; try various multiples
               until you get the desired hand position.

       .child_n.color / .Hand.Foreground
               The color used for drawing the hand.  Hands are drawn opaquely in increasing numerical order.

       .child_n.center.x / .Hand.Center.X

       .child_n.center.y / .Hand.Center.Y
               These specify where on the clock face the pivot point of the hand is to be.  The X and Y coordinates are scaled so that the bounding square of the clock face is 1..1] x [-1..1].  This  al‐
               lows hands to rotate about points other than the center of the clock face, as with some watches.

       .geometry / .Geometry
               Geometry specification, when none is given on the command line.  If no geometry spec can be found anywhere, the equivalent of 200x200+100+100 is used.

       .background / .Background
               Color used as a background for all drawing.

       .name / .Name
               A string, which is stored as the window manager name for the window.  If none is given, "xwatch" is used.

       .iconName / .IconName
               A string, which is stored as the window manager icon name for the window.  If none is given, "xwatch" is used.

       .railroad / .Railroad
               Enables or disables Swiss-railway-clock mode, as described under the -railroad command-line option. The value can be "true", "false", "yes", or "no".

       .circular / .Circular
               If set, the clock will remain circular even if one tries to resize it to a non-circular ellipse.  This is the previous behavior.  The possible values are the same as for .swiss/.Swiss.

EXAMPLE RESOURCES
       The distributed application defaults files define various different looks for swisswatch.  Try them out by calling it as

       swisswatch

       swisswatch -name swisswatch

       swisswatch -name fancy

       swisswatch -name botta

       swisswatch -name swissclock

       swisswatch -name oclock

COLORS
       If you would like your clock to be viewable in color, include the following in the #ifdef COLOR section you read with xrdb:

       *customization:                 -color

       This will cause swisswatch to pick up the colors in the app-defaults color customization file: /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/SwissWatch-color.

SEE ALSO
       X(1), X Toolkit documentation

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 1989, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
       See X(1) for a full statement of rights and permissions.

AUTHOR
       Simon Leinen, Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne

CREDITS
       Der  Mouse  <mouse@larry.McRCIM.McGill.EDU> wrote the mclock program that already featured most of the functionality: smooth movement of the minute hand and excessive configurability.  I basically
       reimplemented mclock as a Toolkit application.  This manpage also contains slightly adapted text from mclock.doc.

X Version 11                                                                                     Release 5                                                                                    SWISSWATCH(1)
