SXCS(1)                                                                                   General Commands Manual                                                                                   SXCS(1)

NAME
     sxcs - Minimal X11 color picker and magnifier

SYNOPSIS
     sxcs [options]

DESCRIPTION
     sxcs  is a minimal X11 color picker and magnifier.  Mouse Button1 will select and print the color to stdout.  The output is TAB separated hex, rgb and hsl.  Scroll Up/Down will zoom in and out.  Any
     other mouse button will quit sxcs.

     The keyboard can also be used when --keyboard is enabled.  The arrow keys Left, Right, Up, Down as well as vi-like h, j, k, l are supported for moving the cursor.  By default they move by 16 pixels,
     if Control is used then they move by 1 pixel, otherwise if Shift is used they move by 128 pixels instead.  Space makes a selection.  q and Escape quits.  + and - zooms in and out.

OPTIONS
     --color-none
            disable color output.

     --hex  output hex colors.

     --rgb  output rgb colors.

     --hsl  output hsl colors.

     --mag-none
            disable magnifier.

     --mag-filters filters
            comma separated list of filter to apply in order.  See the FILTERS section.

     -o, --one-shot
            quit after a single selection.

     -q, --quit-on-keypress
            quit on keypress.

     -k, --keyboard
            enable keyboard control.

     -h, --help
            Show usage and exit.

     --version
            Show version and exit.

FILTERS
     List of available filters:

     square
            draws a square border.

     xhair  draws a square crosshair.

     grid   draws grid.

     circle
            draws a circle.

     icircle
            similar to circle, but the border color is based on what's underneath the cursor.

EXIT STATUS
     sxcs exits with status 0 on success, non-zero on abnormal termination.

AUTHORS
     NRK <nrk@disroot.org>

BUGS
   Reporting Bugs
     For reporting bugs, either open an issue under the Codeberg repo <https://codeberg.org/NRK/sxcs> or send an email to <nrk@disroot.org>.

   Known Bugs
     Visual glitches may occur if the cursor size is too big (typically 255x255).

sxcs v1.2.1                                                                                       May 2026                                                                                          SXCS(1)
