sylseg-sk-training(1)                                                                          USER COMMANDS                                                                          sylseg-sk-training(1)

NAME
       sylseg-sk-training - train the statistic for the syllabic segmentation

SYNOPSIS
       sylseg-sk-training [--color] [--dl debug level] [--help] [<input file>]

DESCRIPTION
       The  syllabic  segmentation  is essential for some linguistic or speech recognition applications. Depending on the language either rule-based or statistical approach is being used. For Slovak, the
       statistical approach seems to be more suitable.

       sylseg-sk-training creates the necessary data for one of the statistical approaches for the syllabic segmentation. The input data are expected to be word segmented  into  syllables.  The  syllabic
       separator  should  be "-".  If no input file is specified, the standard input is expected.  The output is written into the file. The filename is input filename with the extension ".statistics". If
       standard input is used, then the output filename is syl_output.statistics.

       The design of the sylseg-sk-training is language independent. Theoretically it should work for any language.

OPTIONS
       --color
              Enable color output.

       --dl   Set the debug level. Control the amount of displayed information Debug level 0 displays nothing. The maximum level 5 displays a full debugging report. The default debug level is 1.

       --help Display a short help text.

EXAMPLES
       Use file aaa.txt as training input and set up debug level to 3:
              sylseg-sk-training --dl 3 aaa.txt

EXIT STATUS
       sylseg-sk-training returns zero if the training  succeeds.

AUTHOR
       Jozef Ivanecky (dodo (at) kanoistika.sk)

SEE ALSO
       sylseg-sk(1)

version 0.7.3                                                                                September 5, 2020                                                                        sylseg-sk-training(1)
