SYSPURPOSE(8)                                                                               Subscription Management                                                                               SYSPURPOSE(8)

NAME
       syspurpose - Set the intended purpose for this system

SYNOPSIS
       syspurpose [COMMAND] [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
       Syspurpose is a utility for viewing and modifying system purpose properties.

       The  properties  (hints)  set by syspurpose are passed to a Red Hat subscription management entitlement server (Customer Portal or Satellite 6) to help attach the most appropriate subscriptions to the
       system automatically. The entitlement server also reports whether the attached subscriptions match the specified system purpose. Satisfying system purpose properties depends greatly on  the  quantity,
       availability, and subscription SKU offerings that have been purchased for the organization that the system is registered to.

       The  set, unset, add, and remove commands modify the local system purpose, and when possible will report the updated settings to the Red Hat subscription management entitlement server (Customer Portal
       or Satellite 6).  The show command displays the current system purpose.

COMMANDS
       syspurpose set-role VALUE
              Set the role property

       syspurpose unset-role VALUE
              Clear the role property

       syspurpose set-sla VALUE
              Set the service level agreement property

       syspurpose unset-sla VALUE
              Clear the service level agreement property

       syspurpose set-usage VALUE
              Set the system usage property

       syspurpose unset-usage VALUE
              Clear the system usage property

       syspurpose add-addons VALUE...
              Add values to the addons property

       syspurpose remove-addons VALUE...
              Remove values from the addons property

       syspurpose unset-addons VALUE...
              Clear set addons property

       syspurpose show VALUE
              Show the current system purpose properties

   Generic Commands
       The following generic commands can be used as well

       syspurpose set PROPERTY VALUE
              Set the value for a specific property. E.g. "syspurpose set usage foo" is functionally identical to "syspurpose set-usage foo".

       syspurpose unset PROPERTY
              Clears the value for a specific property. E.g. "syspurpose unset usage" is functionally identical to "syspurpose unset-usage".

       syspurpose add PROPERTY VALUE
              Add value(s) to a specific list property. E.g. "syspurpose add addons foo bar" is identical to "syspurpose add-addons foo bar".

       syspurpose remove PROPERTY VALUE
              Clear value(s) from a specific list property. E.g. "syspurpose remove addons foo bar" is identical to "syspurpose remove-addons foo bar".

              Only "addons" acts as a list property.  The other properties only accept a single value.

OPTIONS
       --help Display a summary of the available commands

EXAMPLES
       syspurpose set-role "Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server"
              Indicate that this system should consume a RHEL Server subscription.

       syspurpose unset-role
              Clear a previously set role.

BUGS
       This tool is part of Red Hat Subscription Manager. To file bugs against this command-line tool, go to <https://bugzilla.redhat.com>, and select Red Hat > Red Hat Enterprise Linux  >  subscription-man‐
       ager.

AUTHOR
       Chris Snyder <csnyder@redhat.com>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2018 Red Hat, Inc.

                                                                                                                                                                                                  SYSPURPOSE(8)
