TARADINO(6)                                                                                       Taradino                                                                                      TARADINO(6)

NAME
       taradino - SDL2 port of Rise of the Triad

SYNOPSIS
       taradino [options]

DESCRIPTION
       TARADINO  is  a port of Apogee's 3D action title Rise of the Triad, originally released in 1994.  This port duplicates the functionality of the original game on modern operating systems, including
       Linux, Windows, and Mac OS X.  Portability fixes include support for 64-bit and big-endian systems.

OPTIONS
       aim    Give aim crosshair.

       fullscreen
              Start in fullscreen mode.

       window Start in windowed mode.

       resolution widthxheight
              Specify the screen resolution to use (next parameter is widthxheight).  Valid resolutions are 320x200 and 640x480.

       filertl file
              Used to load Userlevels (RTL files).

       filertc file
              Used to load Battlelevels (RTC files).

       file file
              Used to load WAD files.

       nojoys Disable check for joystick.

       nomouse
              Disable check for mouse.

       nosound
              Disable sound.

       ver    Version number.

       mapstats
              Dump Map statistics to ERROR.

       tilestats
              Dump Tile statistics to ERROR.

       mono   Enable mono-monitor support.

       screenshots
              Clean screen capture for shots.

       pause  Pauses startup screen information.

       enablevr
              Enable VR helmet input devices.

       noecho Turn off sound reverb.

       demoexit
              Exit program when demo is terminated.

       warp level
              Warp to specific level (next parameter is level to start on).

       timelimit time
              Play in time limit mode (next parameter is time in seconds).

       maxtimelimit time
              Maximum time to count down from (next parameter is time in seconds).

       help   Display help message.

       dopefish
              ?

AUTHORS
       Rise of the Triad was created and published as shareware by Apogee Software, Ltd. and was published commercially by FormGen, Inc.

       The primary contributors to the original icculus.org port are: Steven Fuller, Ryan C. Gordon, John Hall and Dan Olson.

       The authors of the Taradino port are: Fabian Greffrath and erysdren.

       This manual page was written by Fabian Greffrath <fabian@debian-unofficial.org> for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

       This manual page was revised by erysdren <contact@erysdren.me>.

2025.8.16                                                                                        2024-07-03                                                                                     TARADINO(6)
