termy-ssh(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                termy-ssh(1)

NAME
       termy-ssh, termy-sudo, termy-su - Establish a connection between TermySequence servers using common helper programs

SYNOPSIS
       termy-ssh [ssh-options] [user@]host
       termy-sudo [su-options]
       termy-su [user]

DESCRIPTION
       termy-ssh  is  a  wrapper around termy-connect(1) for running termy-server(1) on a remote host using an instance of ssh(1).  The ssh-options, user, and host are passed to ssh, along with -q to disable
       printing of diagnostic messages, and -T to disable pseudoterminal allocation. The single command termy-server is requested to be run on the remote host.

       Important: Make sure that termy-server(1) is installed on the remote system and present on the remote user's PATH.  The shell run by ssh(1) in single command mode is neither a login shell nor interac‐
       tive,  meaning that the remote user's .profile and .bash_profile will not be sourced. Furthermore, PATH customizations applied in the remote user's .bashrc must be made before any test for interactiv‐
       ity that causes the script to exit.

       Important: Ensure that ssh-options does not contain any switches such as -v that interfere with the -q or -T switches added by termy-ssh.  Some situations might require direct use of  termy-connect(1)
       or a more complex wrapper script.

       termy-sudo  is  a wrapper around termy-connect(1) for running termy-server(1) as a different user using sudo(8).  The sudo-options are passed to sudo, along with -i to start a login session, and -S to
       remove the need for a pseudoterminal. The command termy-server is requested to be run as the new user.

       termy-su is a wrapper around termy-connect(1) for running termy-server(1) as a different user using su(1).  The optional user argument is passed to su.  The command termy-server is requested to be run
       as the new user.

SEE ALSO
       ssh(1), sudo(8), su(1), termy-connect(1), termy-server(1), termy-monitor(1)
       TermySequence - https://termysequence.io

TermySequence™                                                                                     March 2018                                                                                      termy-ssh(1)
