termy-server(1)                                                                             General Commands Manual                                                                             termy-server(1)

NAME
       termy-server - TermySequence terminal multiplexer server

SYNOPSIS
       termy-server [options]

DESCRIPTION
       termy-server  is  a  multiplexing terminal emulator server implementing the TermySequence protocol.  The emulator aims for XTerm compatibility and supports modern terminal extensions such as 256-color
       text, mouse tracking, shell integration, and inline image display. In addition, the TermySequence protocol provides many features beyond standard terminal emulation, including flexible, efficient con‐
       nectivity between servers, file monitoring and transfer, and multi-user terminal sharing and collaboration.

       Note:  termy-server  does  not provide a text-based user interface in the manner of tmux(1) or screen(1).  A separate client program such as qtermy(1) must be used to interact with the terminals them‐
       selves. The client program will typically launch the server automatically, making it unnecessary to run termy-server directly in most cases. The intent is to separate the display  and  user  interface
       components from the server, allowing a single server implementation to support a wide variety of clients, including clients such as qtermy(1) specifically built for graphical windowing systems.

       By  default,  termy-server  forks  into the background, services standard input, and listens on a private, per-user Unix-domain socket for additional connections.  If the socket is found to be already
       bound to another termy-server instance, standard input will be forwarded to the existing server (using file descriptor passing when possible to avoid copying overhead). This makes it possible to run a
       server  using  e.g.  ssh(1) or sudo(8), gaining access to an existing multiplexer running on another host or as another user (see termy-connect(1)).  When forwarding standard input, the server changes
       its name to termy-forwrd.

       The command line options to termy-server are used to control the lifecycle of the server. The default behavior described above can be modified to support private, standalone  servers  and  socket-only
       daemon  servers,  including  socket-activated  servers suitable for use with systemd(1) per-user instances. In all cases, the server exits on receipt of SIGTERM, SIGINT, or SIGHUP, or when all clients
       have disconnected and all terminals have closed.

       Each termy-server instance forks a companion process, termy-monitor(1), to collect system-specific information such as the hostname and IP address.  Three additional  customizable  programs:  monitor-
       script,  attr-script,  and  id-script are also optionally read by termy-server to override the default monitor process, provide additional system-specific information, and to determine the UUID of the
       local machine, respectively (see FILES below). The system-specific information consists of arbitrary UTF-8 key-value pairs which can be used to customize terminal appearance within supporting TermySe‐
       quence clients such as qtermy(1).

OPTIONS
       --nofork
              Do not fork off a daemon process after startup. Note that even when forking, if standard input is being serviced, the parent process will remain running after the fork as long as standard input
              is active.

       --nostdin
              Do not treat standard input as a client connection; accept client connections on the per-user local socket only. If another termy-server instance is already listening on the socket, exit  imme‐
              diately.

       --activated
              Listen on a local socket passed in via systemd socket activation. Implies --nofork, --nostdin, and --rundir %t/termy-server.  Won't work unless termy-server was compiled with systemd support.

       --nolisten
              Do  not  listen on a per-user local socket for additional client connections; service standard input only. Note that a connection will still be made to the socket to determine if another termy-
              server instance is already running, and if so, standard input will be forwarded to it (see --standalone). Implies --nofork.

       --standalone
              Service standard input without attempting to either listen on or connect to the per-user local socket. The server (and all terminals) will exit after standard input is closed. Implies --nofork.

       --client
              Attempt to connect to an existing termy-server instance over the per-user local socket and hand off standard input for servicing. If no existing instance is listening, exit immediately.

       -t,--rundir dir
              Use runtime directory dir.  It will be created if necessary, but its parent directory must exist. The specifiers %t and %U, if present, are expanded to $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR and the user UID respec‐
              tively. The default location is /tmp/termy-server%U unless --activated is set, in which case this option is ignored. See NOTES below for more information.

       --nogit
              Disable monitoring for and reporting of git-specific file attributes and branch information. Only applicable if termy-server was compiled with libgit2 support.

       --nofdpurge
              Don't look for and close leaked file descriptors on startup. This is useful when debugging the server with tools such as valgrind.

       --help Print basic help

       --version
              Print version information

       --man  Attempt to show this man page

       --about
              Print license information and disclaimer of warranty

FILES
       $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/termy-server/id-script
       /etc/termy-server/id-script
       /usr/lib/termy-server/id-script

       Programs  executed  by termy-server to determine the UUID of the local machine. The program should print the UUID on standard output. By default, /etc/machine-id is used; the id-script programs can be
       used as an override or replacement for that file. One or the other must be present; the TermySequence protocol requires each machine to have a unique identifier.

       $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/termy-server/attr-script
       /etc/termy-server/attr-script

       Programs executed by termy-server to set system-specific UTF-8 key-value pairs reported to clients. The program should print lines of the form key=value and must exit  quickly.  Refer  to  termy-moni‐
       tor(1) for more information. These scripts are optional and are not required to be present.

       $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/termy-server/monitor-script
       /etc/termy-server/monitor-script

       Programs  executed  by  termy-server to set system-specific UTF-8 key-value pairs reported to clients. The program should print lines of the form key=value and may run as long as necessary, however it
       must exit on receipt of SIGTERM or when its standard input is closed. By default termy-monitor(1) is used for this purpose; the monitor-script programs can be used as an override  or  replacement  for
       this program. These scripts are optional and are not required to be present.

       termy-server runs the scripts on startup, and re-runs the attribute and monitor scripts on receipt of SIGUSR1.

NOTES
       termy-server is not intended to be run setuid or setgid, and will exit on startup if it detects this condition.

       When attempting to connect to an existing server, the following locations are searched for the per-user local socket in this order:

       %t/termy-server (only if systemd support is enabled)
       /run/user/%U/termy-server (only if systemd support is enabled)
       /tmp/termy-server%U

       The specifiers %t and %U are expanded to $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR and the user UID respectively.

       When listening, the per-user local socket and PID file are placed under %t/termy-server if --activated is set. Otherwise, /tmp/termy-server%U is used unless changed using the --rundir option.

       The server verifies that the runtime directory is owned by the user and has mode 0700. When making connections over the per-user local socket, the SO_PASSCREDS socket option is used to verify that the
       peer has the same UID. Refer to socket(7) and unix(7) for more information.

SEE ALSO
       termy-monitor(1), termy-connect(1), termy-ssh(1), termy-su(1), termy-sudo(1)
       TermySequence - https://termysequence.io

TermySequence™                                                                                     March 2018                                                                                   termy-server(1)
