termy-setup(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                              termy-setup(1)

NAME
       termy-setup - Perform setup actions for termy-server(1)

SYNOPSIS
       termy-setup [options]

DESCRIPTION
       For each user that will be running termy-server(1), use the termy-setup shell script to perform recommended setup actions before running the server for the first time. Use one or more command line op‐
       tions to specify which setup tasks to perform.

OPTIONS
       --systemd
              Enable and start the systemd(1).  systemd user service for termy-server(1).  See SYSTEMD SETUP below.

       --bash Enable iTerm2-compatible shell integration for bash(1) login shells run under termy-server(1).  Commands will be appended to the user's .profile if it exists, otherwise to .bash_profile.

       --zsh  Enable iTerm2-compatible shell integration for zsh(1) shells run under termy-server(1).  Commands will be appended to the user's .zshrc.

       --help Print basic help

       --version
              Print version information

       --man  Attempt to show this man page

SYSTEMD SETUP
       The systemd setup action essentially runs the following commands:

          systemctl --user enable termy-server.socket
          systemctl --user start termy-server.socket
          loginctl enable-linger
          kill `head -1 /tmp/termy-server$UID/pid`

       This ensures that the user's persistent instance of termy-server(1) will keep running even when the user is logged out. This is only applicable on Linux systems that run systemd user session  managers
       with login sessions controlled by systemd-logind(8).  On such systems, this script (or the above commands) should be run for each user that will be using termy-server(1).

       Important:  These commands, particularly loginctl, must be run from within a fully formed systemd login session. Shells launched via sudo(8) or su(1) do not always meet this requirement, nor do termi‐
       nals run under an existing persistent user server (transient session servers, however, are OK). When in doubt, use ssh or machinectl login to log in as the user and run the script from there.

SEE ALSO
       termy-server(1), systemctl(1), loginctl(1), systemd-logind(8), systemd(1)
       TermySequence - https://termysequence.io

TermySequence™                                                                                    October 2018                                                                                   termy-setup(1)
