termyctl(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 termyctl(1)

NAME
       termyctl - Set or clear TermySequence session attributes

SYNOPSIS
       termyctl [options] [command] [arg]

DESCRIPTION
       termyctl is used to set and clear various useful attributes from within a TermySequence terminal session. The effects of setting these attributes will vary depending on the specific client program be‐
       ing used.

       termyctl also provides an interface to check the status of and adjust "per-session" environment variables whose values depend on the terminal's current owning client.  DISPLAY  and  SSH_AUTH_SOCK  are
       examples of environment variables typically managed in this way. Which variables are considered per-session is controlled by the client program, typically via terminal profile settings.

COMMANDS
       check-env
              Check  the  status of per-session environment variables, if any. The output consists of a list of variable names along with the value that each variable should have (according to the terminal's
              current ownership), the value that the multiplexer server believes the variable to have (based on when the environment was last reset), and the value that the variable actually has.

       fix-env
              Print a set of shell assignment statements which adjust the environment to correspond to the environment of the connected client which currently owns the terminal. A reset-env command will also
              be included if necessary. The output of this command is suitable for evaluation by the shell using eval.

       reset-env
              Inform the multiplexer that the terminal's environment has been updated to match the environment of the connected client which currently owns the terminal. This command should not be run unless
              the environment has in fact been updated. A call to this command will be included in the output of fix-env when appropriate.

       set-icon name
              Set an icon name for the terminal session. If the client supports this attribute, the corresponding icon will be displayed with the terminal thumbnail or otherwise associated with the terminal.

       clear-icon
              Unset the custom icon name for the terminal session, which will cause the client to revert to its default behavior for the terminal icon.  Note that setting the empty  string  is  the  same  as
              clearing the icon; to force display of no icon in qtermy(1), set the name "none".

       set-badge format
              Set  the badge format for the terminal session. This is a text string which may optionally contain attribute names of the form "\(name)", which will be expanded to the attribute's value dynami‐
              cally. Quote the text if it contains spaces. Setting the empty string indicates that no badge should be displayed.

              The TermySequence protocol specifies many useful attributes that can be displayed in terminal badges, and custom attributes can be set as well. The client may have a  means  of  inspecting  the
              available attributes, such as the "View Terminal Information" action within qtermy(1).

       clear-badge
              Unset the custom badge for the terminal session, which will cause the client to revert to its default behavior for the terminal badge.

       set-layout spec
              This is a qtermy(1)-specific option which sets the layout of the terminal viewport and its supporting widgets. The argument is a comma-separated list of numbers (without spaces) where each num‐
              ber refers to a specific widget:

              0) the terminal viewport itself
              1) marks widget
              2) plain scroll bar
              3) minimap widget
              4) timing widget

              The letter "s" may be placed between numbers in the list to request a separator line. A minus sign in front of a number will place the widget at  the  given  location  but  hide  it.   Example:
              "-4,1,s,0,-2,3"

       clear-layout
              Unset the custom layout for the terminal session, which will cause the client to revert to the default layout.

       set-fills spec
              This  is  a qtermy(1)-specific option which sets column fills (vertical lines) at specific column positions in the terminal viewport. The argument is a comma-separated list of fill definitions,
              each taking the form "<column>[:<color>]" where column is the column number at which to place the fill, and color is a 256-color palette index in the range 0 to 255. If color  is  omitted,  the
              terminal foreground color is used. Example: "78,80:9"

       clear-fills
              Unset custom column fills for the terminal session, which will cause the client to revert to the default fills.

OPTIONS
       --help Print basic help

       --version
              Print version information

       --man  Attempt to show this man page

NOTES
       When using qtermy(1) it is possible to manage these settings strictly on the client side using settings profiles. This script is provided for completeness.

       termyctl is a wrapper script that uses termy-query(1).  to set the session attributes. The escape sequences used are specific to TermySequence.  Running this script under other terminal emulators will
       have undefined results.

SEE ALSO
       termy-server(1), qtermy(1)
       TermySequence - https://termysequence.io

TermySequence™                                                                                     March 2018                                                                                       termyctl(1)
