termy-systemd-setup(1)                                                                      General Commands Manual                                                                      termy-systemd-setup(1)

NAME
       termy-systemd-setup - Enable user systemd services for termy-server(1)

SYNOPSIS
       termy-systemd-setup [options]

DESCRIPTION
       Note: This command is deprecated. Please use termy-setup(1) instead.

       termy-systemd-setup is an interactive shell script that essentially runs the following commands:

          systemctl --user enable termy-server.socket
          systemctl --user start termy-server.socket
          loginctl enable-linger
          kill `head -1 /tmp/termy-server$UID/pid`

       This  ensures that the user's persistent instance of termy-server(1) will keep running even when the user is logged out. This is only applicable on Linux systems that run systemd user session managers
       with login sessions controlled by systemd-logind(8).  On such systems, this script (or the above commands) should be run for each user that will be using termy-server(1).

       Important: These commands, particularly loginctl, must be run from within a fully formed systemd login session. Shells launched via sudo(8) or su(1) do not always meet this requirement, nor do  termi‐
       nals run under an existing persistent user server (transient session servers, however, are OK). When in doubt, use ssh or machinectl login to log in as the user and run the script from there.

OPTIONS
       --server-pid pid
              The  pid  of  the user's existing persistent user server, which will be killed.  If not provided, the script will read the pid from /tmp/termy-server$UID/pid if present. Otherwise, no processes
              will be killed.

       --enable-linger
              Just run loginctl enable-linger. The script will check for the XDG_SESSION_ID variable as an indicator of whether a fully formed systemd login session exists.

       --help Print basic help

       --version
              Print version information

       --man  Attempt to show this man page

SEE ALSO
       termy-server(1), systemctl(1), loginctl(1), systemd-logind(8), systemd(1)
       TermySequence - https://termysequence.io

TermySequence™                                                                                     March 2018                                                                            termy-systemd-setup(1)
