XETEX-UNSAFE(1)                                                                           General Commands Manual                                                                           XETEX-UNSAFE(1)

NAME
       xetex-unsafe, xelatex-unsafe - run xe(la)latex unsafely

SYNOPSIS
       xetex-unsafe [xetex-options] xelatex-unsafe [xetex-options]

DESCRIPTION
       xetex-unsafe (xelatex-unsafe) runs XeTeX (XeLaTeX) unsafely; specifically, using the dvipdfmx-unsafe.cfg configuration file.

       As  of  TeX Live 2022, doing this is necessary only when running XeTeX on documents using PSTricks features which require transparency. We strongly recommend using Lua(La)TeX with PSTricks instead
       of XeTeX in this case.

       At all costs, avoid using this, or any, unsafe invocation with documents off the net or that are otherwise untrusted in any way.

WHY?
       You might well ask why using transparency features is unsafe in XeTeX.  The answer lies in the implementation history of Ghostscript, starting as a PostScript interpreter before PDF was  invented,
       when  it was acceptable to abort on an error, whereas with PDF, it must keep going.  The transparency operators, if abused in relation to this error recovery, can cause internal inconsistencies in
       Ghostscript's state.

       Thus, to be safe, we must disallow transparency with Ghostscript by default. The xdvipdfmx  backend  for  XeTeX  calls  Ghostscript  under  certain  circumstances,  notably  when  using  PSTricks.
       (x)dvipdfmx itself is not a PostScript interpreter, which is exactly what PSTricks requires.

       Thus, to enable transparency, xe(la)tex-unsafe run XeTeX with arguments to the xdvipdfmx backend (-output-driver="xdvipdfmx -i dvipdfmx-unsafe.cfg -q -E") to use dvipdfmx-unsafe.cfg, which in turn
       tells Ghostscript to enable the transparency operators (-dALLOWPSTRANSPARENCY). They're disabled by default.

       There have been further complications related to reading from the filesystem, but as of TL22, these have been solved. The transparency issue cannot be solved without a different Ghostscript imple‐
       mentation, and the Ghostscript developers say they have no timeline for this.

       To repeat the above: when using PSTricks and transparency, we strongly recommend playing it safe and using Lua(La)TeX instead of Xe(La)TeX.

OPTIONS
       All command-line arguments except --help and --version are passed to Xe(La)TeX.

BUGS
       For more about XeTeX: https://tug.org/xetex

       For more about PSTricks: https://tug.org/PSTricks

       Email for xe(la)tex-unsafe specifically: https://lists.tug.org/dvipdfmx

                                                                                              20 November 2021                                                                              XETEX-UNSAFE(1)
