TFTP(1)                                                                                        User's Manual                                                                                        TFTP(1)

NAME
       tftp - IPv4 Trivial File Transfer Protocol client

SYNOPSIS
       tftp [ options... ] [host [port]] [-c command]

DESCRIPTION
       tftp  is  a client for the Trivial file Transfer Protocol, which can be used to transfer files to and from remote machines, including some very minimalistic, usually embedded, systems.  The remote
       host may be specified on the command line, in which case tftp uses host as the default host for future transfers (see the connect command below.)

OPTIONS
       -4     Connect with IPv4 only, even if IPv6 support was compiled in.

       -6     Connect with IPv6 only, if compiled in.

       -c command
              Execute command as if it had been entered on the tftp prompt.  Must be specified last on the command line.

       -l     Default to literal mode. Used to avoid special processing of ':' in a file name.

       -m mode
              Set the default transfer mode to mode.  This is usually used with -c.

       -R port:port
              Force the originating port number to be in the specified range of port numbers.

       -v     Default to verbose mode.

       -V     Print the version number and configuration to standard output, then exit gracefully.

COMMANDS
       Once tftp is running, it issues the prompt tftp> and recognizes the following commands:

       ? command-name...

       help command-name...
              Print help information

       ascii  Shorthand for mode ascii.

       binary Shorthand for mode binary.

       connect host [port]
              Set the host (and optionally port) for transfers.  Note that the TFTP protocol, unlike the FTP protocol, does not maintain connections between transfers; thus, the connect command does  not
              actually create a connection, but merely remembers what host is to be used for transfers.  You do not have to use the connect command; the remote host can be specified as part of the get or
              put commands.

       get file
       get remotefile localfile
       get file1 file2 file3...
              Get  a  file  or  set  of  files from the specified sources.  A remote filename can be in one of two forms: a plain filename on the remote host, if the host has already been specified, or a
              string of the form host:filename to specify both a host and filename at the same time.  If the latter form is used, the last hostname specified becomes the  default  for  future  transfers.
              Enable literal mode to prevent special treatment of the ':' character (e.g. C:\dir\file).

       literal
              Toggle literal mode.  When set, this mode prevents special treatment of ':' in filenames.

       mode transfer-mode
              Specify the mode for transfers; transfer-mode may be one of ascii (or netascii) or binary (or octet.)  The default is ascii.

       put file
       put localfile remotefile
       put file1 file2 file3... remote-directory
              Put  a file or set of files to the specified remote file or directory.  The destination can be in one of two forms: a filename on the remote host, if the host has already been specified, or
              a string of the form host:filename to specify both a host and filename at the same time.  If the latter form is used, the hostname specified becomes the default for  future  transfers.   If
              the  remote-directory form is used, the remote host is assumed to be a UNIX system or another system using / as directory separator.  Enable literal mode to prevent special treatment of the
              ':' character (e.g. C:\dir\file).

       quit   Exit tftp.  End-of-file will also exit.

       rexmt retransmission-timeout
              Set the per-packet retransmission timeout, in seconds.

       status Show current status.

       timeout total-transmission-timeout
              Set the total transmission timeout, in seconds.

       trace  Toggle packet tracing (a debugging feature.)

       verbose
              Toggle verbose mode.

NOTES
       The TFTP protocol provides no provisions for authentication or security.  Therefore, the remote server will probably implement some kinds of access restriction or firewalling.   These  access  re‐
       strictions are likely to be site- and server-specific.

AUTHOR
       This  version  of tftp is maintained by H. Peter Anvin <hpa@zytor.com>.  It was derived from, but has substantially diverged from, an OpenBSD source base, with added patches by Markus Gutschke and
       Gero Kulhman.

SEE ALSO
       tftpd(8).

tftp-hpa 5.3                                                                                    23 July 2008                                                                                        TFTP(1)
