
THREADSCOPE(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                              THREADSCOPE(1)

NAME
       threadscope - a graphical thread profiler for Haskell GHC programs

SYNOPSIS
       threadscope [program.eventlog]

DESCRIPTION
       Threadscope is a graphical thread profiler for Haskell programs.

       It parses and displays the content of .eventlog files emitted by the GHC 6.12.1 and later runtimes, showing a timeline of spark creation, spark-to-thread promotions and garbage collections.

       This  helps  debugging  the  parallel performance of Haskell programs, making easier to check that work is well balanced across the available processors and spot performance issues relating to garbage
       collection or poor load balancing.

ARGUMENTS
       threadscope takes the name of the GHC RTS event-log file to process as its single argument. If no filename is given, threadscope starts with an empty workspace, where any event-log file can be  loaded
       by means of the GUI file browser facilities.

USAGE
       In order for threadscope to be useful, you have to compile your Haskell program to use GHC's threaded run-time and also to create runtime profile logs. This can be accomplished with the following com‐
       mand line options to ghc(1)

           $ ghc -threaded -eventlog --make Foo.hs -o foo

       Once the program is built, execute it using the multithreaded run-time, specifying the number of HECs (Haskell Execution Contexts) to use in the usual manner, but also requesting the  creation  of  an
       event log. For example, to use two HECs and create an event log you would use

           $ foo +RTS -N2 -ls -RTS ...

       Once  the  program  runs  to  completion, a file named foo.eventlog is produced. You can start threadscope from the shell prompt passing the event-log filename as the single argument, or you can start
       threadscope from the desktop menus and use its file browsing capabilities to find and open it.

SEE ALSO
       ghc(1)

AUTHOR
       threadscope was written by

           Simon Marlow <marlowsd@gmail.com>
           Donnie Jones <donnie@darthik.com>
           Satnam Singh <s.singh@ieee.org>

       This manual page was written by

           Ernesto Hernández-Novich (USB) <emhn@usb.ve>

       for the Debian project (and may be used by others).

                                                                                                 June 28, 2010                                                                                   THREADSCOPE(1)
