ti(1)                                                                                     General Commands Manual                                                                                     ti(1)

NAME
       ti — issue tracking system built on Git

SYNOPSIS
       ti COMMAND [ARGUMENTS]

DESCRIPTION
       ti, short for ticgit, is an issue tracker based on the Git revision control system.  It allows you to store bugs in your project in a separate ticgit or ticgit-ng branch of its development reposi‐
       tory, thereby keeping open issues close to the source without cluttering the tree.

       Every ticket consists of the following information:

       Title     A short summary of the problem.  This can be compared to the subject of an e-mail or to the first line of a Git commit message.

       Ticket ID The Ticket ID (TicId) is the SHA-1 hash of the file which holds the ticket name (which is a normalized form of the title including the time of ticket creation and a small random number).
                 It is used to uniquely identify a ticket.

       Number    Apart  from  TicIds,  tickets can also be referred to by using their number.  This will often be preferred to TicIds when using ticgit from the command line (i.e., in everyday work), but
                 ticket numbers are not persistent (they change with every ti list invocation).

                 In the current version of ticgit, ti list does not show numbers any more, but they can still be used (by counting manually).

       State     A ticket can either be open, resolved, invalid or put on hold.

       Assignment
                 The e-mail address of the person working on the ticket.

       Tag       A custom label which tells more about the nature of a ticket.  A typical example is feature (not a bug, but a feature suggestion). ticgit associates no special semantics to tags, you are
                 free to choose them however you like.

                 Tickets can have an arbitrary number of tags.

       Points    You can use this integer value to assign some numerical value, such as a measure for the importance, to each ticket.  Again, ticgit does not dictate how to use this field.

       Comments  Comments provide a simple form of communication between bug reporters and developers.

COMMANDS
       ti supports the following commands:

       list      List tickets.  By default, only open issues are shown; to show tickets in other states, use -s STATE.  You can also select by tag (-t TAG) or by assignment (-a  ADDRESS).   When  running
                 list, small integer numbers will be assigned to all shown tickets; you may use them to refer to tickets in other commands until you call list again.

       state     Pass a ticket ID and a state specification to set the ticket's state information.  You can omit the ticket ID to work on the current ticket.

       show      Show everything known about the specified ticket.  You can omit the ticket ID to show the current ticket.

       new       Create a new ticket.  This will launch an editor to let you enter a title, more detailled information about the issue, and some tags.  Initially, the ticket will be in the open state.

       checkout  Set the current ticket.

       comment   Add a comment to the ticket specified on the command line.  If you do not pass one, the current ticket will be used.

       tag       Pass a ticket ID and a tag name to add a label to an issue.  You can omit the ticket ID to tag the current ticket.  If you use the -d option, the tag will be removed instead of added.

       assign    Assign  the  specified  ticket to you (or to the given user, when -u ADDRESS is given).  If you omit the ticket ID, the current ticket will be assigned.  Otherwise, you can prepend -c to
                 the ticket ID to perform the checkout operation after assigning the ticket.

       points    Pass a ticket ID and some integer to assign a point value to the given ticket.  If you only pass a number, this command manipulates the current ticket.

       sync      Synchronize tickets with the remote repository specified on the command line.  This uses the underlying push and pull command implemented in Git, so you can use your usual named remotes.
                 The default remote is origin.

       recent    Get a human-readable changelog of the tickets maintained by ticgit.  This command takes its information straight from the commit messages of the ticgit(-ng) branch.

       These commands show usage information about themselves when passed the --help option.

FILES
       ~/.ticgit/, ~/.ticgit-ng/
                 The ticket cache.

AUTHOR
       ticgit is Copyright © 2008 Scott Chacon <schacon@gmail.com>.

       ticgit-ng is Copyright © 2011 Jeff Welling <jeff.welling@gmail.com>.

       This manual page was written by Michael Schutte for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

                                                                                                                                                                                                      ti(1)
