NAME(1)                                                                                   General Commands Manual                                                                                   NAME(1)

NAME
       ticker - scroll messages across the screen

SYNOPSIS
       ticker [options] [message]

DESCRIPTION
       ticker is a program that continually scrolls a given message across the screen.  There is also an interface to allow other programs to change the message.

KEYS
       +, [up arrow]
              Increase scroll speed.

       -, [down arrw]
              Decrease scroll speed.

       [space]
              Pause. Press any key to unpause.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Show summary of options.

       -u, --upper
              Scroll text on the top line of the screen. (Default)

       -l, --lower
              Scroll text on the bottom line of the screen.

       -fcolor, --foreground=color
              Use the specified color as the foreground color of the text that is scrolled.  The colors that may be used are:
               black           gray
               red             brightred
               green           brightgreen
               brown           yellow
               blue            brightblue
               magenta         brightmagenta
               cyan            brightcyan
               lightgray       white

       -bcolor, --background=color
              Use the specified color as the background color of the text that is scrolled. On most terminals, the background color can only be one of the colors listed in the first column above.

       -dsecs, --delay=secs
              Number of seconds delay between updates of the display. This controls how fast the text scrolls. You may use decimals to specify faster scroll speeds.  The default delay is 1 second; I find
              0.1 more pleasing.

       -snum, --sysv=num
              Read messages to display from the sysv shared memory segment with an id of num. This is only for use by other programs that need to be able to change the text ticker displays.

       -Snum, --size=num
              Size of the shared memory segment to read, when using shared memory communication with another program. Default is 80 characters.

       -csecs, --check=secs
              Minimum  time between checks of the shared memory segment for a new message.  Default is every second. It may in fact check considerably less often, as it only checks for a new message once
              per time that the current message scrolls around the screen.

       message
              The message to scroll. Required unless -s is used, in which case it is optional.

NOTES
       To use the other 23 or so lines of your screen for something useful while the ticker is running, you might want to use splitvt(1)

AUTHOR
       Joey Hess <joey@kitenet.net>

                                                                                                                                                                                                    NAME(1)
