tigervncconfig(1)                                                 Virtual Network Computing                                                 tigervncconfig(1)

NAME
       tigervncconfig - configure and control a VNC server

SYNOPSIS
       tigervncconfig [parameters]
       tigervncconfig [parameters] -connect [-view-only] host[:port]
       tigervncconfig [parameters] -disconnect
       tigervncconfig [parameters] [-set] Xtigervnc-param=value ...
       tigervncconfig [parameters] -list
       tigervncconfig [parameters] -get Xtigervnc-param
       tigervncconfig [parameters] -desc Xtigervnc-param

DESCRIPTION
       tigervncconfig is used to configure and control a running instance of Xtigervnc, or any other X server with the VNC extension.  Note that it cannot be
       used to control VNC servers prior to version 4.

       When  run  with  no options, it runs as a kind of "helper" application for Xtigervnc.  Its main purpose when run in this mode is to query the user how
       new connections should be handled (provided this feature is enabled). The -nowin flag can be used if you always want the query support but don't  wish
       to clutter the desktop with the settings window - alternatively the -iconic option can be used to make it iconified by default.

       When  run  in  any  other  mode,  tigervncconfig  is a one-shot program used to configure or control Xtigervnc as appropriate.  It can be used to tell
       Xtigervnc to connect or disconnect from listening viewers, and to set and retrieve Xtigervnc's parameters.

       Note that the DISPLAY environment variable or the -display option must be set as appropriate to control Xtigervnc.  If you run it  on  an  ordinary  X
       server (or on a version 3 Xtigervnc) you will get an error message saying that there is no VNC extension.

OPTIONS
       -connect [-view-only] host[:port]
              Tells  an  Xtigervnc  server  to make a "reverse" connection to a listening VNC viewer (normally connections are made the other way round - the
              viewer connects to the server). host is the host where the listening viewer is running. If it's not listening on the default port of 5500,  you
              can specify host:port instead. The -view-only option specifies that the server must ignore all keyboard or mouse events sent by the client.

       -desc Xtigervnc-param
              Prints a short description of the given Xtigervnc parameter.

       -disconnect
              This causes Xtigervnc to disconnect from all viewers so that the VNC desktop is not displayed anywhere.

       -get Xtigervnc-param
              Prints the current value of the given Xtigervnc parameter.

       -list  Lists all the parameters supported by Xtigervnc.

       [-set] Xtigervnc-param=value
              Sets  an  Xtigervnc parameter to the given value.  Note that some of Xtigervnc's parameters are read only once at startup so that changing them
              in this way may not have any effect.

PARAMETERS
       tigervncconfig also has parameters of its own which can be set on the command line.  These should not be confused with  Xtigervnc's  parameters  which
       are manipulated with the -set, -get, -list and -desc options.

       Parameters  can be turned on with -param or off with -param=0.  Parameters which take a value can be specified as -param value.  Other valid forms are
       param=value -param=value --param=value.  Parameter names are case-insensitive.

       -display Xdisplay
              Specifies the Xtigervnc server to control.

       -iconic
              When run as a "helper" app, make the window iconified at startup.

       -nowin When run as a "helper" app, don't put up a window.

SEE ALSO
       tigervncpasswd(1), xtigervncviewer(1), Xtigervnc(1), tigervncsession(8)
       https://www.tigervnc.org

AUTHOR
       Tristan Richardson, RealVNC Ltd. and others.

       VNC was originally developed by the RealVNC team while at Olivetti Research Ltd / AT&T Laboratories Cambridge.  TightVNC additions were implemented by
       Constantin Kaplinsky. Many other people have since participated in development, testing and support. This manual is  part  of  the  TigerVNC  software
       suite.

TigerVNC                                                                                                                                    tigervncconfig(1)
