tigervncpasswd(1)                                                                        Virtual Network Computing                                                                        tigervncpasswd(1)

NAME
       tigervncpasswd - change the VNC password

SYNOPSIS
       tigervncpasswd [passwd-file]
       tigervncpasswd -f

DESCRIPTION
       tigervncpasswd  allows  you  to set the password used to access VNC desktops.  Its default behavior is to prompt for a VNC password and then store an obfuscated version of this password to passwd-
       file (or to $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/tigervnc/passwd if no passwordfile is specified.)  The tigervncserver script runs tigervncpasswd the first time you start a VNC desktop, and it invokes Xtigervnc  with
       the appropriate -rfbauth option.  xtigervncviewer can also be given a password file to use via the -passwd option.

       The  password  must  be at least six characters long (unless the -f command-line option is used-- see below), and only the first eight characters are significant.  Note that the stored password is
       not encrypted securely - anyone who has access to this file can trivially find out the plain-text password, so tigervncpasswd always sets appropriate  permissions  (read  and  write  only  by  the
       owner.)  However, when accessing a VNC desktop, a challenge-response mechanism is used over the wire making it hard for anyone to crack the password simply by snooping on the network.

OPTIONS
       -f     Filter mode.  Read a plain-text password from stdin and write an encrypted version to stdout.  Note that in filter mode, short or even empty passwords will be silently accepted.

              A view-only password must be separated from the normal password by a newline character.

FILES
       $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/tigervnc/passwd
       $HOME/.config/tigervnc/passwd
              Default location of the VNC password file.

SEE ALSO
       xtigervncviewer(1), Xtigervnc(1) tigervncconfig(1), tigervncsession(8)
       https://www.tigervnc.org

AUTHORS
       Tristan Richardson, RealVNC Ltd., Antoine Martin, D. R. Commander and others.

       VNC  was originally developed by the RealVNC team while at Olivetti Research Ltd / AT&T Laboratories Cambridge.  TightVNC additions were implemented by Constantin Kaplinsky. Many other people have
       since participated in development, testing and support. This manual is part of the TigerVNC software suite.

TigerVNC                                                                                                                                                                                  tigervncpasswd(1)
