TIGR-GLIMMER     (1)   (1)                                         General Commands Manual                                         TIGR-GLIMMER     (1)   (1)

NAME
       tigr-glimmer — Creates and outputs an interpolated Markov model(IMM)

SYNOPSIS
       tigr-build-icm

DESCRIPTION
       Program   build-icm.c   creates  and outputs an interpolated Markov model (IMM) as described in the paper A.L. Delcher, D. Harmon, S. Kasif, O. White,
       and S.L. Salzberg.  Improved Microbial Gene Identification with Glimmer.  Nucleic Acids Research, 1999, in press.  Please reference this paper if  you
       use the system as part of any published research.

       Input  comes  from the file named on the command-line.  Format should be one string per line.  Each line has an ID string followed by white space fol‐
       lowed by the sequence itself.  The script run-glimmer3 generates an input file in the correct format using the 'extract' program.

       The IMM is constructed as follows: For a given context, say acgtta, we want to estimate the probability distribution of the next character.  We  shall
       do  this as a linear combination of the observed probability distributions for this context and all of its suffixes, i.e., cgtta, gtta, tta, ta, a and
       empty.  By observed distributions I mean the counts of the number of occurrences of these strings in the training set.  The linear combination is  de‐
       termined by a set of probabilities, lambda, one for each context string.  For context acgtta the linear combination coefficients are:

       lambda  (acgtta)  (1  -  lambda  (acgtta))  x lambda (cgtta) (1 - lambda (acgtta)) x (1 - lambda (cgtta)) x lambda (gtta) (1 - lambda (acgtta)) x (1 -
       lambda (cgtta)) x (1 - lambda (gtta)) x lambda (tta) (1 - lambda (acgtta)) x (1 - lambda (cgtta)) x (1 - lambda (gtta)) x (1 - lambda (tta))  x  (1  -
       lambda (ta))  x (1 - lambda (a))

       We  compute  the  lambda values for each context as follows: - If the number of observations in the training set is >= the constant SAMPLE_SIZE_BOUND,
       the lambda for that context is 1.0 - Otherwise, do a chi-square test on the observations for this context compared to the distribution  predicted  for
       the  one-character  shorter suffix context.  If the chi-square significance < 0.5, set the lambda for this context to 0.0 Otherwise set the lambda for
       this context to: (chi-square significance) x (# observations) / SAMPLE_WEIGHT

       To run the program:

       build-icm <train.seq > train.model

       This will use the training data in train.seq to produce the file train.model, containing your IMM.

SEE ALSO
       tigr-glimmer3 (1), tigr-long-orfs (1), tigr-adjust (1), tigr-anomaly   (1), tigr-extract (1), tigr-check (1), tigr-codon-usage (1), tigr-compare-lists
       (1), tigr-extract (1), tigr-generate (1), tigr-get-len (1), tigr-get-putative (1),

       http://www.tigr.org/software/glimmer/

       Please see the readme in /usr/share/doc/tigr-glimmer for a description on how to use Glimmer3.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was quickly copied from the glimmer web site and readme file by Steffen Moeller moeller@debian.org for the Debian system.

                                                                                                                                   TIGR-GLIMMER     (1)   (1)
