TILDA(1)                                                                                       User Commands                                                                                       TILDA(1)

NAME
       tilda - a highly configurable terminal emulator

DESCRIPTION
       Tilda  is a terminal emulator which is highly configurable. The main distinguishing feature of tilda is that it uses a configurable shortcut to show and hide the tilda window. This allows users to
       quickly switch between tilda and other windows only through keyboard shortcuts. When tilda is hidden it will move outside of the screen until a shortcut is pressed again to show the tilda  window.
       The behaviour of tilda can be configured using the preferences dialog that is available via the context menu. A subset of the options can also be configured from the command line as documented be‐
       low.

       Please note that currently command line options override the settings in the configuration file and are persisted into the configuration file.

       Tilda  is  currently  not officially supported on Wayland. Starting with Tilda 1.5.0 it will be able to start under Wayland but the pull hotkey will only work from other X11 windows but not when a
       native Wayland window has the focus.

   Usage:
              tilda [OPTION...]

   Help Options:
       -?, --help
              Show help options

   Application Options:
       -b, --background-color
              Set the background color

       -c, --command
              Run a command at startup

       -h, --hidden
              Start Tilda hidden

       -f, --font
              Set the font to the following string

       -l, --lines
              Scrollback Lines

       -s, --scrollbar
              Use Scrollbar

       -v, --version
              Print the version, then exit

       -w, --working-dir
              Set Initial Working Directory

       -x, --x-pos
              X Position

       -y, --y-pos
              Y Position

       -t, --background-alpha
              Opaqueness: 0-100%

       -C, --config
              Show Configuration Wizard

       --display=DISPLAY
              X display to use

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2012,2020 Sebastian Geiger (lanoxx@gmx.net)
       Copyright © 2005,2008 Tristan Sloughter (sloutri@iit.edu)
       Copyright © 2005,2008 Ira W. Snyder (tilda@irasnyder.com)
       Copyright © 2007,2008 Ken Dreyer (kdreyer@chicagolug.org)

       This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.  This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions. See the file COPYING for details.

BUGS
       Please report bugs via Github at https://github.com/lanoxx/tilda/issues

AUTHOR
       This man page was originally written by Davide Truffa <davide@catoblepa.org> and is currently being maintained by Sebastian Geiger <lanoxx@gmx.net>.

tilda 1.5.0                                                                                       Feb 2020                                                                                         TILDA(1)
