TKABBER-PLUGINS(7)                                                                    Miscellaneous Information Manual                                                                   TKABBER-PLUGINS(7)

NAME
       tkabber-plugins — the set of standard plugins for Tkabber, an XMPP (Jabber) client

SYNOPSIS
       mkdir -p ~/.tkabber/plugins

       ln -s /usr/share/tkabber-plugins/PLUGIN_NAME ~/.tkabber/plugins

       rm ~/.tkabber/plugins/PLUGIN_NAME

DESCRIPTION
       tkabber-plugins  is  the  full set of standard plugins for Tkabber, an XMPP (Jabber) client.  They are maintained as a part of Tkabber and implement various kinds of useful but non-essential func‐
       tionality.

       This manual page explains how to install and uninstall Tkabber plugins and briefly describes all plugins provided by this package.

MANAGING PLUGINS
       Each plugin is just a directory containing necessary files. The directories of all the plugins are located under /usr/share/tkabber-plugins

       When Tkabber starts up it looks for a special directory ~/.tkabber/plugins (i.e. the directory named .tkabber/plugins located under the user's home directory).  If it exists, Tkabber considers all
       its subdirectories as installed plugins and "loads" them.  So the installation and removal of plugins is just a matter of maintaining proper symbolic links under ~/.tkabber/plugins to  the  actual
       directories of plugins.

       Note  that the directory ~/.tkabber/plugins as well as ~/.tkabber might well not exist at the time you will be installing plugins.  This is normal, so just go on and create the necessary directory
       structure if needed.

       A word of caution: Please do not install a plugin if you do not understand what kind of functionality it is supposed to provide! This is because some plugins may have impact  on  usage  experience
       unsolicited by the user. For instance, ctcomp plugin "hijacks" several keyboard shortcuts from the chat input windows for its own usage, etc. So to be on the safe side always read at least the in‐
       troductory section of a plugin's README file if one is provided.

   INSTALLING PLUGINS
       To install a plugin simply copy or — much better — symlink the directory of the chosen plugin under ~/.tkabber/plugins — a directory Tkabber searches for plugins when it starts up.

       If the ~/.tkabber/plugins directory doesn't exist just create it:
       mkdir -p ~/.tkabber/plugins

       It's  better  to  create  a symbolic link rather than copying because this greatly simplifies the upgrade process: when a new version of tkabber-plugins is installed, symbolic links under ~/.tkab‐
       ber/plugins will automatically start to point to the new versions of installed plugins.  Contrary to this, if you copy plugin directories rather than symlink them, you will be  required  to  rein‐
       stall the plugins being used.

       After the plugin is installed you have to restart Tkabber for it to find and load the plugin.

   UNINSTALLING PLUGINS
       To uninstall a plugin simply delete its directory from under ~/.tkabber/plugins directory.

   UPGRADING PLUGINS
       Provided you created symbolic links to actual directories of needed plugins to install them, uprgading to the next version of tkabber-plugins will be fully automatic.

       Otherwise you will have to remove obsoleted versions of plugins from under ~/.tkabber/plugins and then install their new versions back.

AVAILABLE PLUGINS
       Below is the list of all provided plugins and their brief descriptions.

       The proper name of each plugin is also the name of its directory located under /usr/share/tkabber-plugins so is's that name you use for installing and uninstalling that particular plugin.

       aniemoticons
              Plugin which adds support of animated emoticons.

       attline
              Plugin which draws so-called attention line - a line before the first message in a chat window where the window has lost keyboard focus. All messages after the line are unread messages.

       battleship
              Implements  the  "Battleship"  game (also known as "Battleships" and "Sea Battle"): a guessing game for two players where each player positions several "battle ships" on a square field of a
              fixed size and then both players in turn try to guess cells of their opponent's field where a ship is positioned.  When all the cells occupied by a player's ship are guessed by their  oppo‐
              nent, that ship is declared "sunk".  The player who first manages to "sink" all the ships of their opponent wins, and the game ends.

       bc     A word game. Inludes a russian file.

       browser
              Plugin which implements Jabber Browser (XEP-0011). This protocol is deprecated in favor of Service Discovery (XEP-0030), but may be useful for pre-XMPP servers/transports.

       checkers
              Checkers  game  for two players (including Straight, Russian, Spanish, Brazilian, Pool, Italian checkers). When installed, you can send an invitation to your contact (contextual menu on the
              roster). If the other player has also Tkabber and the plugin installed, he will recieve the invitation. If he accepts, a window will open on both.

       chess  Chess game for two players. When installed, you can send an invitation to your contact (contextual menu on the roster). If the other player has also Tkabber and  the  plugin  installed,  he
              will recieve the invitation. If he accepts, a window will open on both.

       ctcomp Plugin  adds  support  for  "text completion" in Tkabber's chat input windows which works like the similar features of the Vim and Emacs text editors. The matching words are picked from the
              corresponding chat log and input windows.

       custom-urls
              Provides regexp-based mechanism to convert strings with numbers to URLs in chat windows.

       cyrillize
              Utility to translate misprinted characters to cyrillic pressing Ctrl+'.

       debug  Allows to see debug messages in separate tab/window.

       ejabberd
              Utility to check your Ejabberd Jabber server remotely.

       floatingcontact
              Allows certain roster items to float in separate small windows.

       floatinglog
              Plugin reports incoming messages, presence changes, status changes in a separate floating window.

       georoster
              World map. It tries to position your contacts using the data on vcard.  You can also drag and drop your contacts from the roster on their possitions.

       gmail  Plugin allows Gmail/Googlemail users to receive mail notifications.

       iconsets
              Several iconsets, borrowed from other Jabber clients, now are represented in this plugin.

       jidlink
              Implements Jidlink file transfer protocol. It's undocumented and obsolete, but may be useful for transferring files to old Tkabber versions.

       latex  Displays formulas in LaTeX notation as embedded images, generated by LaTeX and ImageMagick.

       mute   Experimental implementation of XEP-0058: Multi-User Text Editing, now deferred.

       openurl
              Plugin which adds several items to a URL popup menu. Each item allows to open the URL in a certain browser.

       osd    Displays certain events (presence and chat messages) notification using osd_cat utility.

       otr    Implements the Off-The-Record (OTR) messaging. OTR provides: encryption, authentication, deniability and perfect forward secrecy.

       poker  Implements a variant of the game of Poker known as "Texas Hold'em" for two players.

       presencecmd
              Plugin which adds several commands in a chat window. They change user's presence information (global or directed).

       quotelastmsg
              Allows to "quote" the last message in any active chat session in its input window.  The message is prepended with a fixed string (configurable).  This can be used to put  one's  replies  in
              context when the chat touches upon several parallel issues.

       quiz   Adaptation of He3hauka (a russian quiz game for IRC).

       quotelastmsg
              Provides  a  way  to "quote" the message located at the very bottom of the conversation log of a chat window -- that is, to copy such message into the input box of the same chat window with
              some decorations added (by default the ">> " string is prepeneded to the message). By default, quoting is done using the <Alt-q> keyboard shortcut.

       receipts
              Implements XEP-0184 "Message receipts": in one-to-one chat sessions it is able to request confirmations of reception of outgoing messages and reply  to  such  requests  coming  from  remote
              party.

       renju  Gomoku  and  Renju  (in  fact,  renju  is not implemented yet) game for two players. When installed, you can send an invitation to your contact (contextual menu on the roster). If the other
              player has also Tkabber and the plugin installed, he will recieve the invitation. If he accepts, a window will open on both.

       reversi
              Reversi (othello) game for two players. When installed, you can send an invitation to your contact (contextual menu on the roster). If the other player has also Tkabber and the  plugin  in‐
              stalled, he will recieve the invitation. If he accepts, a window will open on both.

       singularity
              Keeps  the  conversation  with  a person in just one window when that person sends messages from different resources of his/her JID: when the new window for a one-on-one chat is about to be
              opened the plugin checks whether there are any active chat sessions with the same bare JID (that is, without the "/resource" part) as that of the new chat. If there  are,  they  are  closed
              with  their  conversation  log  and input history preserved, the new chat window is opened and then the saved data is inserted into the new window.  So effectively this plugin makes Tkabber
              keep just one chat window per bare JID open.

       socials
              Adds many 'social' commands like /dance. Includes english and russian files.

       spy    Logs your contacts presence changes to a window or to a file. Allows to setup alert window for certain contacts.

       stripes
              Allows to colorize backgrounds of the whole messages placed in the conversation logs of Tkabber chat windows. Backgrounds of even and odd messages can be  configured  separately  from  each
              other (or not configured at all).

       tclchat
              Plugin, which makes chatting in Tclers' chat (tcl@tach.tclers.tk) easier.  It recognises a bot, which connects Jabber room with IRC channel, and maps IRC users to Jabber conference partici‐
              pants.

       tkabber-khim
              Plugin that adds KHIM (an alternative input method by Kevin Kenny) support to Tkabber. It can be used to input characters not directly available from installed keymaps.

       traffic
              Approximately accounts incoming and outgoing XMPP traffic by addressees.  Traffic estimation is good only if no stream compression or encryption is used. But even if the absolute values are
              incorrect, it still allows to find which remote JID consumes the highest traffic amount.

       unixkeys
              Adds support for "Unix-style" (in fact, GNU Readline and GNU bash -style) keyboard shortcuts for text editing to all text entry widgets in Tkabber.

       whiteboard
              Shared whiteboard, allows two contacts or a whole chatroom to draw collaboratively.

EXAMPLES
       To install a plugin:

       1.     Create the directory which Tkabber searches for plugins installed for the user:
              mkdir -p ~/.tkabber/plugins
              You have to do this only once.

       2.     Pick the plugin you would like to install.  Suppose this is the georoster plugin providing the World map which depicts the geographical coordinates of the contacts on your roster.

       3.     Install it by creating a symbolic link from the plugin's directory to the directory of user's plugins. Continuing with our georoster example, you will have to issue this command:
              ln -s /usr/share/tkabber-plugins/georoster ~/.tkabber/plugins

       4.     Repeat for any other plugins you want to install.

       5.     Restart Tkabber.

       To uninstall a plugin just remove its directory from the directory of the user's plugins. For example, to remove the installed georoster plugin issue this command:
       rm ~/.tkabber/plugins/georoster

SEE ALSO
       README files for various plugins under /usr/share/doc/tkabber-plugins

       tkabber(1).

       Tkabber reference manual: /usr/share/doc/tkabber/tkabber.html

       Tkabber WWW site: http://tkabber.jabber.ru/

       Tkabber wiki pages: http://tkabber.jabe.ru/

AUTHORS
       The plugins comprising the tkabber-plugins package were written by various people. Please consult the /usr/share/doc/copyright file for further details.

       This manual page was written by Konstantin Khomoutov <flatworm@users.sourceforge.net>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

                                                                                              October 27, 2009                                                                           TKABBER-PLUGINS(7)
