TKABBER-REMOTE(1)                                                                        Instant Messaging Clients                                                                        TKABBER-REMOTE(1)

NAME
       tkabber-remote - remotely control a running instance of Tkabber

SYNOPSIS
       tkabber-remote [options] -eval script

       tkabber-remote [options] -command command

DESCRIPTION
       Tkabber  is  a  GUI client for XMPP (Jabber) instant messaging protocol. It provides full support for basic XMPP specifications as well as many extensions (XEPs) including multi-user conferencing,
       file transfers, extensive handling of privacy lists and much more.  Tkabber is written in Tcl/Tk and thus is easily extensible.

       The tkabber-remote program can be used to remotely control a running instance of Tkabber by sending it predefined commands or Tcl scripts for execution.

       This manual page was written for the Debian distribution because the original program does not have a manual page.

OPTIONS
       -user user
              Makes the program control Tkabber run by the specified user instead of the user who runs tkabber-remote.

       -pid PID
              Makes the program control Tkabber process with the specified identifier (PID) instead of all the instances found.

EXECUTING SCRIPTS
       To make a running Tkabber instance execute an arbitrary Tcl script use the -eval command-line option followed by that script's text.  (The script's text must form a single argument passed to  this
       program, so proper quoting should be used, if necessary, when calling tkabber-remote from a shell).

       Executing a script prints the PID of the process which received and executed the script, and then the string representation of the Tcl value the script returned.

EXECUTING COMMANDS
       The commands which can be used with the -command command-line options are:

       list-commands
              Prints a list of all the commands supported by the -command command-line option.

       set-proxy-profile profile
              Sets an active network proxy profile by its name.  The profile must be already configured.

       set-status status [textstatus]
              Sets the availability (presence) status of the user.

              Available status codes are:

              available
                     The user is available.

              away   The user is temporarily away.

              chat   The user is actively interested in chatting.

              dnd    The user does not want to be disturbed (dnd = "Do Not Disturb").

              xa     The user is away for an exteneded period of time (xa = "eXtended Away").

              The  optional  textstatus argument can be used to set a textual message which accompanies the availability status.  (The message's text must form a single argument, so proper quoting should
              be used, if necessary, when calling tkabber-remote from a shell).

              Note that sending this command while the receiving Tkabber instance is offline (not connected) will not make it connect; the status will merely be recorded and announced when  Tkabber  goes
              online.

       Executing a command prints the PID of the process which received and executed the command, and then the string representation of the Tcl value the command returned.

SEE ALSO
       tkaber(1) tkabber-plugins(7)

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Konstantin Khomoutov <flatworm@users.sourceforge.net> for the Debian system (but may be used by others).  Copying and distribution of this document, with or without
       modification, are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice and this notice are preserved.

1.1-1                                                                                            2014-10-20                                                                               TKABBER-REMOTE(1)
