TKDESK(1)                                                                                                                                           TKDESK(1)

NAME
       TkDesk - a Graphical File and Desktop Manager for the X Window System

SYNOPSIS
       tkdesk [-configdir dir] [-debug] [-default] [-develop] [-iconic] [-layout file] [-startdir dir] [-twm] [-?|--help]

DESCRIPTION
       TkDesk  provides  a  rich set of functions to help you manage your files and efficiently navigate your file systems.  It also provides several desktop
       and system  managing capabilities such as accessing the external devices of your workstation, starting programs, monitoring the system load and  mail‐
       box etc.

       The main parts of TkDesk are the following:

       1. One or more file browser windows (or just "browsers").  These display the contents of the currently selected directory in the rightmost listbox and
       the  contents  of a configurable number of parent directories in the listboxes left to it.  In addition this window contains a menu bar, a button bar,
       and a status bar.

       2. One or more file list windows.  These display the contents of just the currently selected directory.  These windows also contain a menu bar, a but‐
       ton bar, and may also contain a status bar.

       3. An application bar (or "appbar").  This is a set of buttons displaying icons or other graphical output that can be configured  to  execute  certain
       commands.   All  of  the  buttons  provide  a possibly cascaded popup menu that is accessed by pressing the right mouse button over any appbar button.
       Files may be dragged from any file browser or list window and dropped onto appbar buttons that have been configured to be  drag'n'drop  targets.   The
       contents of the appbar is configured in the "AppBar" configuration file (located in "~/.tkdesk").

       4. The built-in editor (or just "editor").  The editor provides multiple buffers in the same window, virtually unlimited "undo", marks, search and re‐
       place, etc.  Files may be dropped onto any editor window from TkDesk's file listboxes or the desktop.

BASIC USAGE
       The  listboxes  contained  in  the file browser and list windows display the contents of their respective directory.  They provide the following mouse
       button bindings:

       Single-1
              Select the file under the mouse pointer, deselect all others.

       Control-Single-1
              Select or deselect the file under the mouse pointer, without deselecting any other file.

       Shift-Single-1
              Select all files between and including the one under the mouse pointer and the one that was last selected by Single-1 or Control-Single-1.  De‐
              select all others.

       Double-1
              Select and open the file under the mouse pointer, deselect all others.  The command that will be used to open the file is the  first  entry  of
              the file's popup menu (see next item).

       Control-Double-1
              Select the file under the mouse pointer, and ask for a command to be executed on that file.

       Press-2
              Used  to  initiate  a drag and drop operation.  Valid drop targets are all other file listboxes, appbar buttons that have been configured to be
              drag'n'drop targets, editor windows, and the root window (a.k.a. desktop).

       Press-3
              Display the file's or directory's popup menu.  The contents of these menus are configured  in  the  "Popups"  configuration  file  (located  in
              "~/.tkdesk").

       The  display options of any file listbox can be configured through the menubutton right above the listbox, displaying the name of the displayed direc‐
       tory, and the file mask currently set.  It can also be used as a drag and drop source (by pressing mouse button 2) and target.

       TkDesk makes heavy use of cascading popup menus. Basically in every text entry field that's used for entering paths of file names pressing  the  right
       mouse  button  brings  up  a popup menu of parent directories.  Next to most test entry field there is a menu button displaying a turned-over triangle
       that gives access to a menu containing a history of entered strings.

OPTIONS
       -configdir dir
              By default TkDesk reads its configuration either from the files contained in the directory "~/.tkdesk" (see section FILES below), or if it does
              not exist, from TkDesk's library directory (usually "/usr/local/lib/TkDesk").  This options lets TkDesk load its configuration files  from  di‐
              rectory dir.

       -debug Switch on "debug mode".  This generates some output on stderr that may be used for debugging purposes.

       -default
              Let TkDesk read its configuration from its library directory.  This means that TkDesk will start using the default configuration.

       -develop
              Switch on "development mode".  This adds a "Development" submenu to the "TkDesk" menu.

       -iconic
              Open all file browser and list windows in iconic state when TkDesk starts up.

       -layout file
              Load and save TkDesk's window layout from and to file.  If file doesn't exist the default layout is used.

       -startdir dir
              Display dir in the first file browser window that's opened.

       -twm   Some  window  managers,  namely twm cannot handle icon windows correctly.  TkDesk uses these for colored icons.  This options switches to mono‐
              chrome icons.

       -?, --help
              Displays the command line options available.

FILES
       All of the following configuration files are accessible directly inside the "Configuration" submenu of the "TkDesk" menu.  The default application bar
       contains the same menu in the first button (the one with the comet).

       ~/.tkdesk/AppBar
              Definition of the application bar.

       ~/.tkdesk/ButtonBar
              Definition of the button bars used in file browser and file list windows, and of directory-specific button bars.

       ~/.tkdesk/Commands
              Contains a list of menu entries that will be added to the "Commands" menu.

       ~/.tkdesk/Directories
              Definition of the contents of the "Directory" menu and of actions performed when specific directories are opened.

       ~/.tkdesk/FileTags
              Defines how files and directories are displayed, both by default and on a per-object basis (using shell-like "glob" patterns).

       ~/.tkdesk/Local
              Initially, this file does not exist.  If it does though, it is sourced (evaluated) when TkDesk starts up.  This is the right place to  put  any
              local extensions.

       ~/.tkdesk/Popups
              Definition  of the file- and directory-specific popup menus.  Also contains the definition of the popup menu used in the "Copy, Move, ..." dia‐
              log.

       ~/.tkdesk/Sounds
              Defines which command should be used for playing sounds, if any, plus defines which sounds should be played at which TkDesk event.

       ~/.tkdesk/System
              Contains definitions of colours and fonts to be used, which commands should be used for copying, deleting etc.  Also contains options that  af‐
              fect the built-in editor and some other configuration variables.

ENVIRONMENT
       The static version of TkDesk is affected just by one environment variable:

       TKDESK_LIBRARY
              This determines where TkDesk will look for its library (by default usually "/usr/local/lib/TkDesk").

       The dynamically linked version is affected by the following variables:

       TCL_LIBRARY
              Location of the Tcl library files.

       TK_LIBRARY
              Location of the Tk library files.

       Note that other more general variables like PATH may also affect TkDesk.

SEE ALSO
       cd-tkdesk(1), ed-tkdesk(1), od-tkdesk(1)

AUTHOR
       Christian Bolik (Christian.Bolik@mainz.netsurf.de)

BUGS
       TkDesk  may still have problems with files containing spaces, brackets, and braces. This is due to the fact that the largest part of TkDesk is written
       using Tcl, the Tool Command Language created by John Ousterhout, for which these characters are "special" in some respects.

       If you can't get the application bar back on the screen, delete the line starting with "Toplevel  dsk_appbar"  from  the  file  ~/.tkdesk/_layout  and
       restart TkDesk.

       Some Sun machines seem to have problems with Drag&Drop. It seems these problems go away when a more recent X server is used.

4th Berkeley Distribution                                           TkDesk 2.0, 04/15/2004                                                          TKDESK(1)
