TKREMIND(1)                                                                                   VERSION 06.01.05                                                                                  TKREMIND(1)

NAME
       tkremind - graphical front-end to Remind calendar program

SYNOPSIS
       tkremind [options] [read_file [write_file [config_file]]]

DESCRIPTION
       TkRemind is a graphical front-end to the Remind program.  It provides a friendly graphical interface which allows you to view your calendar and add reminders without learning the syntax of Remind.
       Although  not  all of Remind's features are available with TkRemind, TkRemind gives you an opportunity to edit the reminder commands which it creates.  This allows you to learn Remind's syntax and
       then add extra features as you become a more sophisticated Remind programmer.

       TkRemind is written in Tcl, and requires version 8.5 (or higher) as well as the tcllib extension.  It also requires a wish binary.  If you are using Tcl/Tk 8.5, you may also need either the Img or
       the tkpng extension to handle PNG images.

COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS
       TkRemind itself has no command-line options.  However, it passes any command-line argument starting with - to Remind as an option.  In addition, TkRemind will respect the -m and  -b1  options  and
       adjust its appearance accordingly.

       Read_file  is  the file from which TkRemind reads reminders.  It is in standard Remind format.  Write_file is the file to which TkRemind writes reminders which you add using the GUI.  If Read_file
       is omitted, it defaults to $HOME/.reminders.  If Write_file is omitted, it defaults to Read_file.

       You may wish to have a different Write_file from Read_file if you want to collect all of TkRemind's reminders in one place.  Suppose your main file is $HOME/.reminders and you want TkRemind to put
       its reminders in $HOME/.tkreminders.  In $HOME/.reminders, include the line:

            INCLUDE [getenv("HOME")]/.tkreminders

       Config_file is the file in which TkRemind stores its options.  If it is omitted, it defaults to $HOME/.config/tkremindrc.

       If $HOME/.reminders is a directory, then TkRemind defaults to reading $HOME/.reminders and writing new reminders to $HOME/.reminders/100-tkremind.rem.  If you want to keep your reminders in a  di‐
       rectory $HOME/.reminders, you should create that directory before starting TkRemind.

THE CALENDAR WINDOW
       When  you  start  TkRemind, it displays a calendar for the current month, with today's date highlighted.  Reminders are filled into each box on the calendar.  If a box contains many reminders, you
       can scroll it up and down by dragging mouse button 2 in the box.  Note that there is no specific indication of an over-full box; you'll just have to notice that the box appears completely full.

NAVIGATING
       To change to the previous or next month, click the <- or -> button, respectively.  You can also use the left/right arrow keys or PageUp/PageDown to navigate.

       To change back to the current month, click Today or press the Home key.  To go to a specific month, click Go To Date....  This pops up a dialog box which allows you to select a month and  enter  a
       year.  Once you've done this, click Go to go to the date, or Cancel to cancel.

       To exit TkRemind, click Quit.

ADDING REMINDERS
       To add a reminder, click button 1 in any day number in the calendar.  The Add Reminder... dialog will pop up, with values preselected for the day you clicked.

       The  dialog has six basic groups of controls.  The first three lines select one of three types of reminders.  Choose the type of reminder with the radio buttons, and choose the values of the days,
       months, and years by selecting values from pull-down menus.  The pull-down menus appear when you click the raised value buttons.

       The next control specifies an expiry date for the reminder.  Select the check button to enable an expiry date, and fill in the values using pull-down menus.

       The third control specifies how much advance notice you want (if any), and whether or not weekends and holidays are counted when computing advance notice.

       The fourth control specifies which days Remind considers as part of the weekend.  This can affect the interpretation of "weekday" in the second and third types of reminders.

       The fifth group of controls associates a time and possible duration with the reminder.  You can also specify advance notice, possibly repeating.

       The sixth control allows you to specify whether the reminder is a TODO, and if so, its completion date.  Typing a slash "/" in the "Complete through:" field automatically fills in the date of  the
       calendar  entry.  Otherwise, enter a completion date in the form YYYY-MM-DD.  You can also enter a number in the "Max overdue days:" field to limit how many days past the due date Remind will keep
       reminding you of the TODO.

       The seventh control specifies what Remind should do if a reminder falls on a holiday or weekend.

       Enter the body of the reminder into the Summary: text entry.  If you want, you can enter a location, a URL, and a longer description in the Location:, URL: and Description: boxes.   If  you  enter
       anything here, they will be added as INFO items to the reminder.

       To  add the reminder to the reminder file, click Add to reminder file.  To close the dialog without adding the reminder to the file, click Cancel.  To preview the reminder, click Preview reminder.
       This pops up the Preview reminder dialog box.

PREVIEWING REMINDERS
       The Preview reminder dialog box is an excellent way to learn Remind.  It displays the Remind command which realizes the reminder you entered using the Add Reminder... dialog.  You can edit the re‐
       minder, thereby gaining access to advanced features of Remind.  You can also use it simply to play around and discover Remind's idioms for expressing different types of reminders.

SEEING A SINGLE DAY'S REMINDERS
       Right-click on any day number in the calendar to pop up a window with that day's reminders in Agenda Mode.  You can left- or right-click the current date and time indicator at the  bottom  of  the
       window to see today's reminders in Agenda Mode.

       In  the  Agenda  Mode  display, hovering over a reminder will show ancillary information such as a Location, URL or Description.  Clicking on a reminder will open an editor on the REM command that
       created the reminder.

PRINTING
       To print the current month's calendar, click Print... on the main calendar window.  This brings up the print dialog.  Printing either produces a PostScript file or sends PostScript to a UNIX  com‐
       mand.  (If you have rem2pdf installed, you can choose to produce PDF output rather than PostScript.)

       Select the print destination by choosing either To file: or To command: in the print dialog.  Press Browse... to bring up a file browser.  In the file browser, you can enter a filename in the text
       entry,  double-click  on a filename in the listbox, or double-click on a directory to navigate the file system.  You can also type the first few characters of a file name in the text entry box and
       press space to complete the name to the first matching entry.

       The Match: box contains a filename wildcard which filters files in the listbox.  You can change the filter and press enter to rescan the directory.

       Select the appropriate paper size and orientation.  Activate Fill page if you want the calendar to fill the page.  This should be the normal case unless you have many  reminders  in  a  particular
       day.  (See the Rem2PS or rem2pdf documentation.)

       Finally,  click  Print  to print or Cancel to cancel.  Note that during printing, Remind is called with the -itkremind=1 option and also an additional -itkprint=1 option.  If you are producing PDF
       output, then the option -itkpdf=1 is also supplied to Remind.

EDITING REMINDERS
       If you created a reminder with TkRemind, it will turn red as the mouse cursor passes over it in the calendar window.  Click button-1 over the reminder and you will be presented with a dialog  win‐
       dow  whose  state is identical to the one used to create the reminder.  At this point, you can change the reminder by editing the dialog entries and selecting Replace reminder.  You can delete the
       reminder entirely by selecting Delete reminder.  The remaining buttons, Preview reminder and Cancel operate identically to the dialog in "ADDING REMINDERS."

       Note that if you edit a reminder (using Preview reminder), any edits you made are not retained in the dialog box.  You should not attempt to edit such reminders; you have to  retype  them  in  the
       Preview reminder dialog.

       If the reminder was not created with TkRemind, you can't edit it with TkRemind.

USING A TEXT EDITOR
       If  you  have  set the "text editor" option correctly, right-clicking on a reminder will bring up a text editor on the file containing the reminder.  The cursor will be positioned on the line that
       generated the reminder.  In addition, if you have a reminder that is editable with an editor but was not created using TkRemind, it will be underlined when you move the cursor over it, and you can
       edit it in a text editor by either left- or right-clicking on the reminder.

       If a reminder has location or description INFO items, then hovering over the reminder will pop up a window containing the location and/or description information.

HYPERLINKS
       If a reminder has a "Url:" INFO string set, then middle-clicking will open the URL using xdg-open.

ERRORS
       If there are any errors in your reminder file, the "Queue..." button changes to "Errors...".  Click on "Errors..." to see the Remind error output.  Click "OK" to close the error window; this makes
       the button in the main TkRemind window to revert to "Queue..."  You can click on any error message to open an editor on the file and line number that caused the error.

BACKGROUND REMINDERS
       If you create "timed" reminders, TkRemind will queue them in the background and pop up boxes as they are triggered.  Additionally, if you created the reminder using TkRemind, you will be given the
       option of "turning off" the reminder for the rest of the day.  TkRemind achieves queuing of background reminders by running Remind in server mode, described later.

OPTIONS
       The final button on the calendar window, Options, lets you configure certain aspects of TkRemind.  The configuration options are:

       Start up Iconified
              If this is selected, TkRemind starts up iconified.  Otherwise, it starts up in a normal window.

       Show Today's Reminders on Startup
              If this is selected, TkRemind shows a text window containing reminders which would be issued by "remind -q -a -r" on startup, and when the date changes at midnight.

       Confirm Quit
              If this is selected, you will be asked to confirm when you press Quit.  If not, TkRemind quits without prompting.

       Automatically close pop-up reminders after a minute
              If this is selected, pop-up reminder boxes will be closed after one minute has elapsed.  Otherwise, they remain on your screen forever until you explicitly dismiss them.

       Use system notifications when issuing a reminder
              This option is available only for Tcl/Tk version 9.0 or later, or if you have the notify-send program installed; it will be greyed out if neither condition is true.  If selected, then  when
              a reminder is popped up, it will also be sent to the desktop notification system, causing a notification to appear.

       Beep terminal when popping up a reminder
              If selected, TkRemind beeps the terminal bell when a queued reminder pops up.

       Deiconify calendar window when popping up a reminder
              If selected, does what it says.

       Run command when popping up a reminder
              If this entry is not blank, the specified command is run whenever a background reminder pops up.

       Feed popped-up reminder to command's standard input
              If selected, feeds the text of the reminder to the command described above.  The text of the reminder is prefixed by "HH:MM ", where HH:MM is the time of the reminder.

       E-mail reminders here if popup not dismissed
              If  you  enter  a non-blank e-mail address in this field, then TkRemind will e-mail you a reminder if you don't dismiss the popup box within one minute.  This is useful if you need to leave
              your terminal but want your reminders to "follow" you via e-mail.

       Name or IP address of SMTP server
              TkRemind uses a direct SMTP connection to send mail.  Enter the IP address of your SMTP server here.

       Text Editor
              This specifies a text editor to invoke when a reminder is right-clicked.  The sequence "%d" is replaced with the line number of the file containing the reminder, and "%s" is  replaced  with
              the file name.  Useful strings might be "emacs +%d %s" or "gvim +%d %s"

       Extra Arguments for Remind
              This specifies any extra arguments that should be passed to Remind when TkRemind invokes remind.  Unless you know what you are doing, leave this blank.

       Change entry font...
              This button pops up a font selection dialog that lets you change the font used to draw calendar items in the calendar boxes.

       Change heading font...
              Similar to Change entry font, but applies to calendar heading (the month and day names and the day numbers.)

       Once  you've configured the options the way you like them, press Apply Options to put them into effect, Save Options to put them into effect and save them in $HOME/.config/tkremindrc, or Cancel to
       cancel any changes you made.

KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
       TkRemind's main window includes the following keyboard shortcuts:

       Ctrl-Q Quit

       Left Arrow
              Previous Month

       Right Arrow
              Next Month

       Home   Today

IMMEDIATE UPDATES
       If you are running TkRemind on Linux and Remind has been compiled with inotify(7) support, then TkRemind redraws the calendar window immediately if $HOME/.reminders changes (or, if it is a  direc‐
       tory, any files in that directory change.)

       This  lets  TkRemind  react immediately to hand-edited reminders or to reminder files that are imported from another calendar system (for example, you may have a cron job that periodically imports
       your Google Calendar entries into Remind format.)

ODDS AND ENDS
       TkRemind performs some basic consistency checks when you add or preview a reminder.  However, if you edit a reminder in the previewer, TkRemind does not check the edited reminder.  You can produce
       illegal reminders which may cause problems.  (This is one good reason to isolate TkRemind's reminders in a separate file.)

       TkRemind does not check the body of the reminder in any way.  You can use the normal Remind substitution sequences in the body.  Furthermore, if you use expression-pasting in  the  body,  TkRemind
       does not validate the expressions.

       When TkRemind invokes Remind, it supplies the option:

            -itkremind=1

       on the command line.  So, in your Remind file, you can include:

            IF defined("tkremind")
                 # Then I'm probably being invoked by TkRemind
            ENDIF

       You can use this to activate certain reminders in different ways for TkRemind (for example).

       TkRemind uses tags to keep track of reminders in the script file. You can certainly mix "hand-crafted" reminders with reminders created by TkRemind if you are aware of the following rules and lim‐
       itations:

       o      TkRemind uses TAGs of the form TKTAGnnn where nnn is a number.  You should not use such TAGs in hand-crafted reminders.

       o      Hand-crafted reminders cannot be edited with TkRemind, and for hand-crafted timed reminders, you will not be presented with the "Don't remind me again" option when they pop up.

       However,  rather  than  mixing hand-edited files with TkRemind-generated ones, it is better to make $HOME/.reminders a directory and keep your hand-edited files in a separate *.rem file than TkRe‐
       mind's 100-tkremind.rem file.

SERVER MODE
       Remind has a special mode for interacting with programs like TkRemind.  This mode is called server mode and is selected by supplying the -zj option to Remind.

       In server mode, Remind operates similar to daemon mode, except it reads commands (one per line) from standard input and writes status lines to standard output.  Each status line is a JSON object.

       The commands accepted in server mode are:

       EXIT   Terminate the Remind process.  EOF on standard input does the same thing.  Remind exits immediately without printing a JSON status line.

       STATUS Return the number of queued reminders.  The JSON object looks something like this:

              {"response":"queued","nqueued":n,"command":"STATUS"}

              where n is the number of reminders queued.

       QUEUE or JSONQUEUE
              Returns the contents of the queue.  The JSON object looks something like this:

              {"response":"queue","queue":[ ... ],"command":"QUEUE"}

              The value of the queue key is an array of JSON objects, each representing a queued reminder.

       TRANSLATE Any string goes here
              Returns the translation of "Any string goes here" according to Remind's translation table.  Note that there must be exactly one space after TRANSLATE and  before  the  string  you  wish  to
              translate.  The JSON object that results from "TRANSLATE New Moon" might look like this:

              {"response":"translate","translation":{"New Moon":"Nieuwe maan"},"command":"TRANSLATE"}

              As  you see, the value of the translation key is an object whose key is the original text and value is the translated text.  A front-end can use TRANSLATE do its own localization; for exam‐
              ple, TkRemind uses it to localize the moon phase popup window for the SPECIAL MOON display.

              If the argument to TRANSLATE is not in the translation table, then Remind will not issue any response at all to the TRANSLATE command.

       TRANSLATE_DUMP
              Returns the contents of the translation table.  The JSON object looks like this:

              {"response":"translate_dump","table":{...},"command":"TRANSLATE_DUMP"}

              The value of the table key is a dictionary of original-to-translated strings.

       DEL qid
              Delete the reminder with queue-id qid from the queue.

       REREAD Re-read the reminder file.  Returns the following status line:

              {"response":"reread","command":"REREAD"}

       Additional status lines written are as follows:

       {"response":"reminder","ttime":tt,"now":now,"tags":tags,"qid":qid,"body":body}

              In this line, tt is the trigger time of the reminder (expressed as a string), now is the current time, tags (if present) is the tag or tags associated with the reminder,  and  body  is  the
              body of the reminder.  This response causes TkRemind to pop up a reminder notification.  qid is a unique identifier for this reminder.  You may delete it from the queue by sending a DEL qid
              command  to  the  server.   Note that qids are not stable across re-reads; if Remind restarts itself to re-read the reminder file, then the qid values are likely to change, and any reminder
              deleted with a DEL qid command is likely to be re-queued.

       {"response":"newdate"}

              This line is emitted whenever Remind has detected a rollover of the system date.  The front-end program should redraw its calendar or take whatever other action is needed.

       {"response":"reread","command":"inotify"}

              If Remind was compiled with support for inotify(7), then if it detects a change to the top-level reminder file or directory, it issues the above response.  The front-end should  redraw  its
              calendar since this response indicates that a change has been made to the reminder file or directory.

       Please  note that Remind can write a status message at any time and not just in response to a command sent to its standard input.  Therefore, a program that runs Remind in server mode must be pre‐
       pared to handle asynchronous status messages.

AUTHOR
       TkRemind was written by Dianne Skoll <dianne@skoll.ca>

       TkRemind is Copyright (C) 1996-2025 by Dianne Skoll.

FILES
       $HOME/.reminders -- default reminder file or directory.

       $HOME/.config/tkremindrc -- TkRemind saved options.

HOME PAGE
       https://dianne.skoll.ca/projects/remind/

SEE ALSO
       remind, rem2ps, rem2pdf, rem2html

4th Berkeley Distribution                                                                        2025-10-09                                                                                     TKREMIND(1)
