tlog-play.conf(5)                                                                           File Formats Manual                                                                           tlog-play.conf(5)

NAME
       tlog-play.conf - tlog-play configuration file

DESCRIPTION
       tlog-play.conf is a JSON-format configuration file for tlog-play program.  Contrary to the strict JSON specification, both C and C++ style comments are allowed in the file.

       The  file  must contain a single JSON object with the objects and fields described below.  Some of them are optional and assume a default value.  Those that do require a value can still be omitted
       and specified to tlog-play via command-line options.

OBJECTS AND FIELDS
   Root object
       reader (string)
              The type of "log reader" to use for retrieving log messages. The chosen reader needs to be configured using its own dedicated parameters.

              One of: "file", "journal", "es"
              Default: "file"

       file (object)
              File reader object, see below.

       es (object)
              Elasticsearch reader object, see below.

       journal (object)
              Systemd journal reader object, see below.

       persist (boolean)
              If true, ignore any keyboard-generated signals and the quit key.

              Default: false

       lax (boolean)
              If true, ignore missing (dropped, or lost) log messages.  Otherwise report an error and abort when a message is missing.

              Default: false

   file - File reader object
       path (string)
              The path to the file the "file" reader should read logs from.

              No default.

       match (string)
              The recording id of the recording the "file" reader should seek to for playback.

              No default.

   es - Elasticsearch reader object
       baseurl (string)
              The base URL to request Elasticsearch through. Should not contain query (?...) or fragment (#...) parts.

              No default.

       query (string)
              The query string to send to Elasticsearch

              No default.

       verbose (boolean)
              If true, enable verbose output on Elasticsearch HTTP client.

              Default: false

EXAMPLES
       A configuration specifying only the reader:

              {
                  "reader": "file"
              }

       A configuration specifying Elasticsearch reader, along with the base URL.

              {
                  "reader": "es"
                  "es" : {
                      "baseurl": "http://localhost:9200/tlog/tlog/_search"
                  }
              }

SEE ALSO
       tlog-play(8), http://json.org/

AUTHOR
       Nikolai Kondrashov <spbnick@gmail.com>

Tlog                                                                                             March 2016                                                                               tlog-play.conf(5)
