tlog-play(8)                                                                                System Manager's Manual                                                                                tlog-play(8)

NAME
       tlog-play - play back terminal I/O recorded by tlog-rec(8)

SYNOPSIS
       tlog-play [OPTION...]

DESCRIPTION
       Tlog-play  is a playback program for terminal I/O recorded with tlog-rec(8).  It reproduces the recording on the terminal it's run under, and can't change its size, so the playback terminal size needs
       to match the recorded terminal size for proper playback.

       Tlog-play loads its parameters from the system-wide configuration file /etc/tlog/tlog-play.conf, which can be overridden with command-line options described below.

OPTIONS
   General options
       -h, --help
              Output a command-line usage message and exit.

       -v, --version
              Output version information and exit.

       --configuration
              Output program configuration in JSON and exit.

       -s, --speed=NUMBER
              Set playback speed multiplier to NUMBER.

              NUMBER is a floating-point number to multiply playback speed by.  Can be adjusted during playback.

              Value minimum: 0

       -f, --follow
              Wait for and play back new messages.

              If specified, when the end of the recorded session is reached, wait for new messages to be added and play them back when they appear.

       -g, --goto=STRING
              Fast-forward to STRING time (start/end/HH:MM:SS.sss).

              STRING is a logical location, or a time to which recording should be fast-forwarded.  Can be a "start", or an "end" string, or a timestamp formatted as HH:MM:SS.sss, where any part can be omit‐
              ted to mean zero.

       -p, --paused
              Start playback paused.

              If specified, playback is started in a paused state.

       -r, --reader=STRING
              Use STRING log reader (file/journal/es, default file).

              STRING is the type of "log reader" to use for retrieving log messages. The chosen reader needs to be configured using its own dedicated parameters.

              Value should be one of: "file", "journal", "es"

       --persist
              Ignore quit key and signals from keyboard.

              If specified, ignore any keyboard-generated signals and the quit key.

       --lax  Ignore missing (dropped) log messages.

              If specified, ignore missing (dropped, or lost) log messages.  Otherwise report an error and abort when a message is missing.

   File reader options
       -i, --file-path=FILE
              Read log from FILE file.

              FILE is the path to the file the "file" reader should read logs from.

       -m, --file-match=STRING
              Playback explicit recording id specified in STRING.

              STRING is the recording id of the recording the "file" reader should seek to for playback.

   Elasticsearch reader options
       --es-baseurl=STRING
              Elasticsearch URL without query or fragment parts.

              STRING is the base URL to request Elasticsearch through. Should not contain query (?...) or fragment (#...) parts.

       --es-query=STRING
              Elasticsearch query.

              STRING is the query string to send to Elasticsearch

       --es-verbose
              Enable verbose output on Elasticsearch HTTP client.

              If specified, enable verbose output on Elasticsearch HTTP client.

   Systemd journal reader options
       -S, --journal-since=SECONDS
              Start searching journal at SECONDS since epoch.

              SECONDS is the number of seconds since epoch to seek to before searching for the first matching log entry.

              Value minimum: 0

       -U, --journal-until=SECONDS
              Stop searching journal at SECONDS since epoch.

              SECONDS is the number of seconds since epoch at which searching for log entries should stop.

              Value minimum: 0

       -M, --journal-match=STRING
              Add STRING to journal match symbol list.

              Each  STRING specifies a journal match symbol: either a name-value pair, according to sd_journal_add_match(3), or an "OR" or "AND" string signifying disjunction or conjunction, as with sd_jour‐
              nal_add_disjunction(3) and sd_journal_add_conjunction(3)

CONTROLS
       Playback can be controlled using the following keys:

       SPACE, p
              Pause/resume playback.

       }      Double the playback speed. Maximum is 16x.

       {      Halve the playback speed. Minimum is 1/16x.

       BACKSPACE
              Reset playback to normal, 1x speed.

       .      Output the next packet immediately, without delay, regardless if paused or not. Press when paused to step through recording. Press once to skip a long pause. Hold to skip through  recording  at
              constant speed (the keyboard repeat rate).

       G      Fast-forward  the recording to the end, or to specified time. Works while playing and on pause. The time can be specified by typing in a timestamp before pressing 'G'. The timestamp should fol‐
              low the format of the -g/--goto option value, but without the fractions of a second. The command has no effect, if the specified time location has already been reached.

              E.g. pressing just 'G' would fast-forward to the end, which is useful with following enabled. Pressing '3', '0', 'G' (typing "30G") would fast-forward to  30  seconds  from  the  start  of  the
              recording. Typing "30:00G" would fast-forward to 30 minutes, and so would "30:G", and "1800G". Typing "2::G" would fast-forward to two hours into the recording, the same as "120:G" and "7200G".

       q      Stop playing and quit.

FILES
       /etc/tlog/tlog-play.conf
              The system-wide configuration file

BUGS
       Recordings can include control sequences attempting to communicate with the terminal, and the playback terminal would dutifully reply to them.  Tlog-play tries to filter these responses out, but since
       it's not a full terminal emulator itself, and since there's a great variety of such control sequences, it can sometimes fail, and interpret some of these as playback control keys described above, with
       corresponding effects.

       This  is  going to be fixed in future releases, possibly by embedding a proper terminal emulator in tlog-play. For now, most recordings would reproduce correctly, but some might exhibit erratic behav‐
       ior, and it is possible to e.g. make a recording which would skip (hide) a part of itself on playback. However, there are other, easier ways to hide actions on a terminal, of course.

EXAMPLES
       Play back contents of a file written with tlog-rec's "file" writer:
              tlog-play -r file --file-path=recording.log

       Play back a recording from Journal:
              tlog-play -r journal -M TLOG_REC=6071524bb44d403991a00413ab7c8596-53bd-378c5d9

       Play back a recording from Elasticsearch:
              tlog-play -r es --es-baseurl=http://localhost:9200/tlog/tlog/_search --es-query=session:121

SEE ALSO
       tlog-play.conf(5), tlog-rec(8)

AUTHOR
       Nikolai Kondrashov <spbnick@gmail.com>

Tlog                                                                                               March 2016                                                                                      tlog-play(8)
