TMISPELL.CONF(5)                                                                            File Formats Manual                                                                            TMISPELL.CONF(5)

NAME
       tmispell.conf - configuration file for tmispell

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page describes the configuration file for tmispell(1).

FILES
       /etc/tmispell.conf
              The configuration file that contains spell-checker entries and options.

       Syntax of configuration file

              option=value

              The value string, if enclosed between quotes, may span multiple lines; “#” is a comment character and everything on a line after it is ignored.

       Options

              ispell The location of the Ispell executable to be called as a fall-back. The full path to the Ispell executable must be given. This option is mandatory.

              tex-command-filter
                     A  list  of  TeX commands and their parameter lists to use when filtering TeX input. The syntax is "cmdname oOpP, ...", where oOpP is a string of characters denoting the type of com‐
                     mand's parameters.  Uppercase letter means that a parameter should be spell-checked, lowercase that it should not.  O and o denote optional parameters, P and p normal parameters.

              tex-environment-filter
                     A list of environments to skip when filtering TeX input.

              sgml-attributes-to-check
                     A list of SGML or HTML tag attributes to spell-check.

              The spell-checker module specification consists of seven strings on the same line, separated by whitespace(s) (i.e. space or tab) and possibly enclosed in double (") or single  (')  quotes.
              Backslash (\) can be used to escape quote characters inside quotes. The meanings of the strings are:

                 1.  The name by which the dictionary is known, similar to the name of an Ispell hash file name without the extension .hash.  This is mandatory.

                 2.  This option is not used in current version of Tmispell.

                 3.  This option is not used in current version of Tmispell.

                 4.  The input encoding this module uses (e.g. UTF-8). This is mandatory.

                 5.  The value of the locale variable LC_CTYPE that should be used with this module. This determines the default set of characters that are considered to belong to a word. If empty or not
                     given, the value of a suitable environment variable is used.

                 6.  The set of additional word characters not specified by the locale. If not given, no additional word characters are assumed.

                 7.  The set of word boundary characters. They are considered to be a part of a word only when occurring inside one. If not given, no boundary characters are assumed.

EXAMPLES
       Example configuration file

              ispell=/usr/bin/ispell.real
              suomi "/dev/null" "/dev/null" "UTF-8" "fi_FI.UTF-8" ".-" "':"
              tex-command-filter="begin po, end p, usepackage op, newcommand poOP"
              tex-environment-filter="equation $ eqnarray displaymath math"

       The first line specifies the location of the fall-back ispell program to use.

       The  second line defines spell-checking settings for Finnish language.  Language is identified by the name “suomi”.  Following two options are not used in the current version of Tmispell.  The in‐
       put encoding to use is UTF-8. Only the letters specified by the locale fi_FI.UTF-8 as well as period (.) and dash (-) are considered word characters. Boundary characters are ASCII  apostrophe  (')
       and colon (:).

       Every time Tmispell is invoked with “-d suomi” or “-d /usr/lib/ispell/suomi.hash” as arguments, the Voikko spell-checking system is used for spell-checking. Otherwise the real Ispell is started.

       The  third  line specifies that in TeX filter mode the parameters to commands begin{}, end{} and usepackage{} should not be spell-checked, whereas the second optional and second obligatory parame‐
       ters to “newcommand” should.

       The fourth line specifies that in TeX filter mode no math environment should be spell-checked.

AUTHORS
       The original Tmispell was programmed by Pauli Virtanen <pauli.virtanen@hut.fi>.
       Modifications and integration with Voikko spell-checking system by Harri Pitkänen <hatapitk@iki.fi>.

SEE ALSO
       tmispell(1), ispell(1)

       Voikko homepage: http://voikko.sourceforge.net/

                                                                                                 2006-07-30                                                                                TMISPELL.CONF(5)
