TOX-DELAY(1)                                                                            General Commands Manual                                                                           TOX-DELAY(1)

NAME
       tox-delay — run some Tox tests after others have completed

SYNOPSIS
       tox-delay [-p value | --parallel value] -e envlist [-- tox-options...]
       tox-delay [-V | -h | --version | --help | --features]

DEPRECATION NOTICE
       The tox-delay tool is in maintenance mode, it is no longer developed.  Only important bugfixes will be applied.  Please switch to using the tox-stages tool from the test-stages Python library
       instead.

DESCRIPTION
       The  tox-delay  tool  postpones  the run of the specified Tox environments after the run of all the others has completed successfully.  This may be useful if e.g. there are unit or functional
       test environments, which it would make no sense to run if the static checkers (pylint, mypy, etc) find any problems.

       The tox-delay tool accepts the following command-line options:

       -e envlist | --envlist envlist
               Specify the environments for which to delay the run.

       -p value | --parallel value
               Pass a parallel execution option to Tox for the first set of environment runs.

       -h | --help
               Display program usage information and exit.

       -V | --version
               Display program version information and exit.

       --features
               List the features supported by the program and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       The operation of the tox-delay utility is not directly influenced by any environment variables.

FILES
       The operation of the tox-delay utility is not directly influenced by the contents of any files.

EXAMPLES
       Run some static checkers in parallel, leave the unit and functional tests for last:

             tox-delay -p all -e unit-tests,functional

       Pass some options to Tox:

             tox-delay -e unit-tests,functional -- --workdir /tmp/tox

       Also pass some arguments to the Tox test environments (accessed via {posargs} in the tox.ini file:

             tox-delay -e unit-tests,functional -- --workdir /tmp/tox -- -k chosen

       Run the unit and functional tests in parallel, too:

             tox-delay -p all -e unit-tests,functional -- -p all

DIAGNOSTICS
       The tox-delay utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
       tox(1)

STANDARDS
       No standards were harmed during the production of the tox-delay utility.

HISTORY
       The tox-delay utility was written by Peter Pentchev in 2022.  It was declared as deprecated in 2024 after the test-stages Python library was judged feature-complete.

AUTHORS
       Peter Pentchev ⟨roam@ringlet.net⟩

BUGS
       No, thank you :) But if you should actually find any, please report them to the author.

Debian                                                                                     February 26, 2024                                                                              TOX-DELAY(1)
