TOX-STAGES(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                            TOX-STAGES(1)

NAME
       tox-stages — run Tox environments in groups, stop on failure

SYNOPSIS
       tox-stages [-f filename] available
       tox-stages [-f filename] run [--arg arg... | -A arg...] [--match-spec spec | -m spec] [--parallel spec | -p spec] [stage...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  tox-stages  tool  is used to run Tox test environments in several stages, one or more environments running in parallel at each stage.  If any of the test environments run at some stage should
       fail, tox-stages will stop, not run anything further, and exit with a non-zero exit code.  This allows quick static check tools like e.g.  ruff to stop the testing process early, and  also  allows
       scenarios like running all the static check tools before the package's unit or functional tests to avoid unnecessary failures on simple errors.

TAGGING TOX TEST ENVIRONMENTS
       The  tox-stages  tool expects to be able to invoke an installation of Tox that will load the tox_trivtags plugin module distributed as part of the test-stages library.  This module will add a tags
       list of strings to the definition of each Tox environment; those tags can be specified in the tox.ini file as follows:

             [testenv:format]
             skip_install = True
             tags =
               check
               format
             deps =
               ...

SUBCOMMANDS
   available - can the tox-stages tool be run on this system
       The tox-stages available subcommand exits with a code of zero (indicating success) if there is a suitable version of Tox installed in the same Python execution environment as the  tox-stages  tool
       itself.

   run - run some Tox environments in stages
       The  tox-stages run subcommand starts the process of running Tox test environments, grouped in stages.  If any of the test environments run at some stage should fail, tox-stages will stop, not run
       anything further, and exit with a non-zero exit code.

       The run subcommand accepts the following options:

       --arg argument | -A argument
               Pass an additional command-line argument to each Tox invocation.  This option may be specified more than once, and the arguments will be passed in the order given.

       --match-spec spec | -m spec
               Pass an additional specification for Tox environments to satisfy, e.g.  “-m '@check'” to only run static checkers and not unit tests.

       --parallel spec | -p spec
               Specify which stages to run in parallel.  The spec parameter is a list of stage indices (1, 2, etc.) or ranges (4-6); the tests in the specified stages will be run in parallel,  while  the
               tests  in the rest of the stages will not.  By default, all tests are run in parallel.  The special values “” (an empty string), “0” (a single character, the digit zero), or “none” will be
               treated as an empty set, and no tests will be run in parallel.

       The positional arguments to the run subcommand are interpreted as test stage specifications as described in the parse-stages library's documentation.  If no stage specifications are given  on  the
       command line, tox-stages will read the pyproject.toml file in the same directory as the tox.ini file, and will look for a tool.test-stages.stages list of strings to use.

FILES
       If  no  stage specifications are given on the command line, tox-stages will read the pyproject.toml file in the same directory as the tox.ini file, and will look for a tool.test-stages.stages list
       of strings to use.

EXAMPLES
       Run all the stages as defined in the pyproject.toml
        file's tool.test-stages.stages parameter:

             tox-stages run

       Group Tox environments into stages as defined in the pyproject.toml file, but then only run the ones marked with the "check" tag that also have names containing the string "format":

             tox-stages run -m '@check and format'

       Run a specific set of stages, passing -- -k slug as additional Tox arguments so that e.g. a pytest environment that uses the Tox {posargs} variable may only run a selected subset of tests:

             tox-stages -A -- -A -k -A slug @check unit-tests

       Execute a somewhat more complicated recipe:

       -  first, run all test environments with names containing "ruff" in parallel

       -  then, run the rest of the test environments marked with the "check" tag, but not marked with the "manual" tag, one by one

       -  then, run all test environments with names containing "unit" in parallel

       -  finally, run the rest of the test environments marked with the "tests" tag, but not marked with the "manual" tag, in parallel

             tox-stages -p 1,3-4 ruff '@check and not @manual' unit '@tests and not @manual'

AUTHORS
       The tox-stages tool, along with its documentation, is developed as part of the test-stages library by Peter Pentchev ⟨roam@ringlet.net⟩.

Debian                                                                                          May 13, 2023                                                                                  TOX-STAGES(1)
