TRACKVERIFY(1)                                                                                    Track Verify                                                                                   TRACKVERIFY(1)

NAME
       trackverify - verifies the data content of tracks

SYNOPSIS
       trackverify [OPTIONS] <track 1> [track 2] ...

DESCRIPTION
       trackverify takes one or more audio tracks, verifies their files for correctness, and displays its results to standard output. If directories are given, they are searched recursively for any supported
       audio files and verified if found.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              show a list of options and exit

       -t, --type=TYPE
              An audio format to restrict searching to. If given, only files of the given audio types will be verified. May be used multiple times. For a list of available audio formats, try: -t help

       -S, --no-summary
              do not display summary information when verification is complete

       -R, --accuraterip
              verify tracks against those of AccurateRip database

       --cue=FILENAME
              cuesheet to use when verifying CD image against AccurateRip database

       -j, --joint=PROCESSES
              The maximum number of tracks to verify at one time. If one has multiple CPUs or CPU cores, allowing trackverify(1) to use all of them simultaneously can increase  verification  speed.  However,
              the maximum speed is likely to be limited by I/O-bound rather than CPU-bound.

       -V, --verbose=VERBOSITY
              The level of output to display. Choose between 'normal', 'quiet' and 'debug'.

VERIFICATION
       All  audio  formats  do  not carry an equal measure of error protection. What Python Audio Tools is capable to detecting depends on the audio format. For example, FLAC files have their frame checksums
       verified, in addition to the file's MD5 hash. Files packed in Ogg containers have their Ogg page checksums verified. However, for formats such as Wave, there is no standard way to verify that its data
       content is correct; we can only ensure that its blocks of data are the correct size.

ACCURATERIP
       Verifying  lossless tracks against AccurateRip's online database is a way of ensuring one's rips are identical to rips performed by other people. The confidence level is the number of other people who
       have the same rip, so a larger value indicates one's own rip is consistent with those of others. However, not finding one's rip in the AccurateRip database does not necessarily mean the  rip  is  bad;
       the CD may be new, rare, or a different pressing than the one in the database.

EXAMPLES
       Check all FLAC files in the current directory:

              trackverify *.flac

       Check only MP3 files found in the directory audio/

              trackverify -t mp3 audio/

SEE ALSO
       audiotools-config(1),  audiotools.cfg(5),  cdda2track(1),  cddainfo(1),  cddaplay(1),  coverdump(1),  covertag(1), coverview(1), dvda2track(1), dvdainfo(1), track2cdda(1), track2track(1), trackcat(1),
       trackcmp(1), trackinfo(1), tracklength(1), tracklint(1), trackplay(1), trackrename(1), tracksplit(1), tracktag(1)

AUTHOR
       Brian Langenberger

                                                                                                   2020-02-18                                                                                    TRACKVERIFY(1)
