TRANSLIT(1p)                                                                          User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                          TRANSLIT(1p)

NAME
       translit - transliterate text between various writing systems

SYNOPSIS
       translit -t name -r -i file -o file -l -v -h

DESCRIPTION
       translit transliterates UTF-8 encoded natural language text from one writing system to another.

       It utilizes the Perl module Lingua::Translit to accomplish this task and follows the provided transliteration standards as strict as possible.

       translit regards the following commandline switches:

       --trans, -t name
           Use the transliteration standard named name.

       --reverse, -r
           Transliterate in reverse direction.

           NOTE: Not every transliteration is capable of being reversed.  If unsure, have a look at the list of supported transliterations using the --list switch.

       --infile, -i FILE
           Read text from FILE. Defaults to STDIN.

       --outfile, -o FILE
           Write the transliterated text to FILE. Defaults to STDOUT.

       --list, -l
           Print a list of supported transliterations showing their

           •   name

           •   reversibility

           •   description

       --verbose, -v
           Print verbose status messages to STDERR.

       --help, -h
           Show a short help text introducing command line switches only.

RESTRICTIONS
       The input has to be UTF-8 encoded.

BUGS
       None known.

       Please report bugs using CPAN's request tracker at <https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Lingua-Translit>.

SEE ALSO
       Lingua::Translit, Lingua::Translit::Tables

AUTHORS
       Alex Linke <alinke@netzum-sorglos.de>

       Rona Linke <rlinke@netzum-sorglos.de>

LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Alex Linke and Rona Linke

       Copyright (C) 2009-2016 Lingua-Systems Software GmbH

       Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Netzum Sorglos, Lingua-Systems Software GmbH

       Copyright (C) 2017 Netzum Sorglos Software GmbH

       This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.26.1                                                                                       2017-11-13                                                                                      TRANSLIT(1p)
