
transcalc(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                transcalc(1)

NAME
       transcalc — analysis and synthesis tool for microwave and RF transmsision lines

SYNOPSIS
       transcalc [-h/--help]  [-v/--version]

DESCRIPTION
       transcalc is an analysis and synthesis tool for calculating the electrical and physical properties of different kinds of RF and microwave transmission lines.

       Transcalc  allows  you to interactively edit substrate, component, physical and electrical parameters of a given transmission line. For each type of transmission line, using entry boxes, you can enter
       values for the various parameters, and either calculate its electrical properties (press Analyze button or function key F3), or use the given electrical requirements to  synthesize  (press  Synthesize
       button or function key F4) physical parameters of the required transmission line.

       When  run  for  the first time Transcalc       creates a .transcalc directory under the user's home directory, where some configuration information is stored. Transcalc remembers the last transmission
       line parameters used when the user exits and presents those parameters when restarted.

       Calculated results are updated and presented within the user interface. Moving the mouse over the parameter labels pops up a more helpful tooltip about that parameter. For example, if you wonder  what
       "Er" stands for, move the mouse over it and a helpful tooltip tells you that it stands for relative permittivity.

       Transcalc  knows and converts between many unit types for length, frequency, resistance and angles. Default units can be saved by using the File->Options menu. Calculated results include conductor and
       dielectric losses in decibels (dB).

OPTIONS
       Transcalc has few command line options at this point.

       -v, --version
                 Causes transcalc  to print its version number (a string on the form MAJOR.MINOR, like 0.10) to the standard  output,  and then exit.

AUTHOR
       transcalc was written by Gopal Narayanan (gopal@astro.umass.edu) and Claudio Girardi (claudio.girardi@ieee.org). transcalc is available at http://transcalc.sourceforge.net/ (link to  URL  http://tran‐
       scalc.sourceforge.net/) .

                                                                                                                                                                                                   transcalc(1)
