TRAVIS(1)                                                                                      User commands                                                                                      TRAVIS(1)

NAME
       travis - Trajectory Analyzer and Visualizer

SYNOPSIS
       travis [options] [file]

DESCRIPTION
       travis  is  a Trajectory Analyzer and Visualizer (TRAVIS), a free tool for analyzing and visualizing trajectories from all kinds of Molecular Dynamics or Monte Carlo simulations. The aim of TRAVIS
       is to collect as many analyses as possible in one program, creating a powerful tool and making it unnecessary to use many different programs for evaluating simulations. This should greatly  ratio‐
       nalize and simplify the workflow of analyzing trajectories.

OPTIONS
       If only one parameter is specified, it is assumed to be the name of a trajectory file.

       The program supports the following options:

       -p file
              Loads  position  data from the specified trajectory file.  The file format may be XYZ (.xyz), PDB (.pdb), LAMMPS (.lmp) or DLPOLY (file name HISTORY without an extension). If this option is
              not set, the trajectory file to open will be asked for.

       -i file
              Reads input from the specified text file.

       -stream
              Treats input trajectory as a stream (e.g. named pipe)

       -config file
              Load the specified configuration file.

       -showconf
              Shows a tree structure of the configuration file.

       -writeconf
              Writes the default configuration file.

       -nocolor
              Execute in monochrome mode.

       -dimcolor
              Uses dim instead of bright colors.

       -verbose
              Show detailed information about what's going on.

       -help, -?
              Show help screen.

FILES
       travis.log, #1#travis.log, #2#travis.log, ...
              Session log file(s).

       travis.conf, ~/travis.conf
              Configuration file(s).

BUGS
       Never do run more than one instance of TRAVIS in the same directory at the same time as every instance will try to access the same log file and at least one of it will crash.

CITATION
       Please cite TRAVIS as follows:

              M. Brehm and B. Kirchner: "TRAVIS - A free Analyzer and Visualizer  for  Monte  Carlo  and  Molecular  Dynamics  Trajectories",  J.  Chem.  Inf.  Model.,  2011,  51(8),  pp  2007-2023,  DOI
              10.1021/ci200217w.

AUTHORS
       This manual page was written by Daniel Leidert <dleidert@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

travis                                                                                         March 12, 2013                                                                                     TRAVIS(1)
