TWCONFIG(4)                                                        Kernel Interfaces Manual                                                       TWCONFIG(4)

NAME
       twconfig - Tripwire configuration file reference

DESCRIPTION
       The  configuration file stores system-specific information, including the location of Tripwire data files, and the settings used to send email notifi‐
       cation. The configuration file settings are generated during the installation process, but can be changed by the system  administrator  at  any  time.
       The configuration file is signed with the site key, and the site passphrase is required to edit the file.

       During installation, a signed Tripwire configuration file tw.cfg will be created in the /etc/tripwire directory, and a plain text copy of this config‐
       uration file twcfg.txt will be created in the same directory.

       The  configuration file is modified using the twadmin --create-cfgfile command.  With this command, the user can designate an existing plain text file
       as the current configuration file.  Using the current site key and passphrase, the new configuration file is cryptographically signed and  saved  with
       this command.

   Components of the Configuration File
       The  Tripwire  configuration  file  is structured as a list of keyword-value pairs, and may also contain comments and variable definitions.  Any lines
       with "#" in the first column are treated as comments.

       The general syntax for variable definition is:
           keyword  =  value
       For example:
           ROOT = /usr/tripwire
           EDITOR = /usr/local/bin/jove

       Variable substitution on the right hand side is permitted using the syntax:
           $(  varname  )
       For example:
           DBFILE = $(ROOT)/db/$(HOSTNAME).twd

       Variable names are case-sensitive, and may contain all alphanumeric characters, underscores, the characters "+-@:", and the period.  Two variables are
       predefined in the configuration file, and may not be changed.  HOSTNAME is the unqualified hostname that Tripwire is running on, and DATE is a  string
       representation of the date and time.

   Required Variables
       The following variables must be set in order for Tripwire to operate.  The values listed below are assigned during installation.

POLFILE         Default = /etc/tripwire/tw.pol
DBFILE          Default = /var/lib/tripwire/$(HOSTNAME).twd
REPORTFILE      Default = /var/lib/tripwire/report/$(HOSTNAME)-$(DATE).twr
SITEKEYFILE     Default = /etc/tripwire/site.key
LOCALKEYFILE    Default = /etc/tripwire/$(HOSTNAME)-local.key

   Other Variables
       The following variables are not required to run Tripwire, but some of the program's functionality will be lost without them.  The values assigned dur‐
       ing installation are listed.

       EDITOR Specifies  an editor to be used in interactive modes.  If EDITOR is not defined, and no editor is specified on the command line, using interac‐
              tive modes will cause an error.
              Initial value:  /bin/vi

       TEMPDIRECTORY
              This variable can be set to the location to which tripwire should write its temporary files. By default it is /tmp, which due  to  the  default
              permissions  can  be very insecure. It is recommended that you use this configuration variable to provide tripwire with a secure place to write
              temporary files. The directory used should have its permissions set such that only the owning process can read/write to it, i.e. "chmod 700".
              Initial value: /tmp

       GLOBALEMAIL
              This variable is set to a list of email addresses separated by either a comma ",", or semi-colon ";". If a report would have normally been sent
              out, it will also be send to this list of recipients.
              Initial value:  none

       LATEPROMPTING
              Prompt for passphrase as late as possible to minimize the amount of time that the passphrase is stored in memory.  If the value is true  (case-
              sensitive),  then late prompting is turned on.  With any other value, or if the variable is removed from the configuration file, late prompting
              is turned off.
              Initial value:  false

       LOOSEDIRECTORYCHECKING
              When a file is added or removed from a directory, Tripwire reports both the changes to the file itself, and the modification to  the  directory
              (size, num links, etc.).  This can create redundant entries in Tripwire reports.  With loose directory checking, Tripwire will not check direc‐
              tories  for any properties that would change when a file was added or deleted.  This includes: size, number of links, access time, change time,
              modification time, number of blocks, growing file, and all hashes.

              If the value for this variable is true (case-sensitive), then loose directory checking is turned on, and these properties will be  ignored  for
              all  directories.   With  any  other  value, or if the variable is removed from the configuration file, loose directory checking is turned off.
              Turning loose directory checking on is equivalent to appending the following propertymask to the rules for all directory inodes: -snacmblCMSH
              Initial value:  false

       SYSLOGREPORTING
              If this variable is set to true, messages are sent to the syslog for four events: database initialization, integrity check  completions,  data‐
              base  updates, and policy updates.  The syslog messages are sent from the "user" facility at the "notice" level.  For more information, see the
              syslogd(1) man page and the syslog.conf file.  The following illustrates the information logged in the syslog for each of the four events:

Jun 18 14:09:42 lighthouse tripwire[9444]: Database initialized:
/var/lib/tripwire/test.twd

Jun 18 14:10:57 lighthouse tripwire[9671]: Integrity Check Complete:
TWReport lighthouse 20000618141057 V:2 S:90 A:1 R:0 C:1

Jun 18 14:11:19 lighthouse tripwire[9672]: Database Update Complete:
/var/lib/tripwire/test.twd

Jun 18 14:18:26 lighthouse tripwire[9683]: Policy Update Complete:
/var/lib/tripwire/test.twd

              The letters in the Integrity Checking log correspond to # of violations, maximum severity level, and # of files added,  deleted,  and  changed,
              respectively.  With any value other than true, or if this variable is removed from the configuration file, syslog reporting will be turned off.
              Initial value:  true

       REPORTLEVEL
              Specifies  the  default  level of report produced by the twprint --print-report mode. Valid values for this option are 0 to 4. The report level
              specified by this option can be overridden with the (-t or --report-level) option on the command line. If this variable is not included in  the
              configuration  file,  the default report level is 3.  Note that only reports printed using the twprint --print-report mode are affected by this
              parameter; reports displayed by other modes and other commands are not affected.
              Initial value:  3

       DBPRINTLEVEL
              Specifies the default level of report produced by the twprint ‐‐print‐dbfile mode. Valid values for this option are 0 to 2.  The  output  level
              specified  by this option can be overridden with the (‐t or ‐‐output‐level) option on the command line. If this variable is not included in the
              configuration file, the default output level is 2.
              Initial value:  2

       HASH_DIRECT_IO
              Use direct i/o when hashing files. (Linux-only as of OST 2.4.3.2)
              Initial value:  false

       RESOLVE_IDS_TO_NAMES
              Specifies whether to resolve uid/gid values to user & group names.  Static binaries may segfault while  calling  getpwuid/getgrgid  in  certain
              nsswitch.conf configurations, and setting this to false will bypass the name resolution step and prevent the segfault.
              Initial value:  true

   Email Notification Variables
       MAILMETHOD
              Specifies the protocol to be used by Tripwire for email notification. The only acceptable values for this field are SMTP or SENDMAIL. Any other
              value will produce an error message.
              Initial value:  SENDMAIL

       SMTPHOST
              Specifies the domain name or IP address of the SMTP server used for email notification. Ignored unless MAILMETHOD is set to SMTP.
              Initial value:  mail.domain.com

       SMTPPORT
              Specifies the port number used with SMTP. Ignored unless MAILMETHOD is set to SMTP.
              Initial value:  25

       MAILPROGRAM
              Specifies the program used for email reporting of rule violations if MAILMETHOD is set to SENDMAIL.  The program must take an RFC822 style mail
              header,  and  recipients will be listed in the "To:" field of the mail header.  Some mail programs interpret a line consisting of only a single
              period character to mean end‐of‐input, and all text after that is ignored.  Since there is a small possibility that  a  Tripwire  report  would
              contain  such  a line, the mail program specified must be able to ignore lines that consist of a single period (the -oi option to sendmail pro‐
              duces this behavior).
              Initial value:  /usr/lib/sendmail -oi -t

       EMAILREPORTLEVEL
              Specifies the default level of report produced by the tripwire --check mode email report.  Valid values for this option are 0 to 4. The  report
              level  specified by this option can be overridden with the (-t or --email-report-level) option on the command‐line. If this variable is not in‐
              cluded in the configuration file, the default report level is 3.
              Initial value:  3

       MAILNOVIOLATIONS
              This option controls the way that Tripwire sends email notification if no rule violations are found during an integrity check.  If MAILNOVIOLA‐
              TIONS is set to false and no violations are found, Tripwire will not send a report. With any other value, or if the variable  is  removed  from
              the configuration file, Tripwire will send an email message stating that no violations were found.

              Mailing  reports  of  no  violations allows an administrator to distinguish between unattended integrity checks that are failing to run and in‐
              tegrity checks that are running but are not finding any violations.  However, mailing no violations reports will increase the  amount  of  data
              that must be processed.
              Initial value: true

       MAILFROMADDRESS
              Specifies the value of the "From:" field in email reports.
              Initial value:  tripwire@hostname, where 'hostname' is the local machine name.

VERSION INFORMATION
       This man page describes Tripwire 2.4.

AUTHORS
       Tripwire, Inc.

COPYING PERMISSIONS
       Permission  is  granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this man page provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved
       on all copies.

       Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this man page under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided  that  the  entire
       resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical to this one.

       Permission  is  granted  to copy and distribute translations of this man page into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
       except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved by Tripwire, Inc.

       Copyright 2000-2018 Tripwire, Inc. Tripwire is a registered trademark of Tripwire, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All rights reserved.

SEE ALSO
       twintro(8), tripwire(8), twadmin(8), twprint(8), siggen(8), twpolicy(4), twfiles(5), sendmail(1), vi(1), syslogd(1)

Open Source Tripwire 2.4                                                 04 Jan 2018                                                              TWCONFIG(4)
