TROFF2RTF(1)                                                                            General Commands Manual                                                                           TROFF2RTF(1)

NAME
       troff2rtf - convert troff documents to Rich Text Format

SYNTAX
       troff2rtf [ -mxx ] [ -S charset ] [ file ...  ]

DESCRIPTION
       troff2rtf  processes  documents  written  to be formatted with troff (or nroff, or any of the other *roff variants) and converts them to Rich Text Format.  RTF is a reasonably portable inter‐
       change standard; files in RTF format can be read by a variety of applications, e.g., Microsoft Word, WordPerfect (Macintosh version 2.0 and up), WriteNow.

       The main use for troff2rtf is to make it easier to transport troff documents for use with microcomputers.  First, convert your document to RTF:
              % troff2rtf [options] file > file.rtf
       The available options are described below.  The one you'll most likely use is -mxx to specify a macro package like -me or -ms.  If the document contains tables, the  conversion  can  be  done
       like this instead:
              % tblcvt file | troff2rtf [options] > file.rtf
       Then move the RTF file to your target machine and read it into your document processor.

       Optional flags may be given to modify the operation of troff2rtf, as follows:

       -mxx   Specify macro package, usually -man, -me, -mm, or -ms.

       -S charset
              Specify  the RTF character set.  charset can be one of the following: ansi mac pc pca.  The default is the Macintosh character set.  For documents that you intend to use under Windows,
              -S ansi is a better choice.

SEE ALSO
       tblcvt(1), troffcvt(1)

WHO-TO-BLAME
       Paul DuBois, dubois@primate.wisc.edu.

BUGS
       Table output generated when troff2rtf is used in concert with tblcvt has been known to crash Word outright; caution may be in order.  In addition, you may need to read the resulting RTF docu‐
       ment into a word processor and tweak column widths manually.

       Word97 adds support for vertically merging table cells (using the \clvmgf and \clvmrg control words).  troff2rtf supports vertical spans using these controls, but  earlier  versions  of  Word
       don't yet understand them.  Consequently, what you'll see for n-cell vertical spans is n individual cells, with all the text in the top cell and n-1 empty cells below it.

                                                                                                                                                                                          TROFF2RTF(1)
