TS2PHC(8)                   System Manager's Manual                  TS2PHC(8)

NAME
       ts2phc  -  Synchronizes  one or more PTP Hardware Clocks using external
       time stamps.

SYNOPSIS
       ts2phc [ -hmqv ] [ -c device|name ] [ -f config ] [ -l print-level ]  [
       -s device|name ] [ long-options ] ...

DESCRIPTION
       ts2phc  synchronizes  PTP  Hardware Clocks (PHC) to external time stamp
       signals.  A single source may be used to distribute time to one or more
       PHC devices.

OPTIONS
       -c device|name
              Specifies  a  PHC slave clock to be synchronized.  The clock may
              be identified by its character device (like  /dev/ptp0)  or  its
              associated  network  interface  (like eth0).  This option may be
              given multiple times.

       -f config
              Read configuration from the specified  file.   No  configuration
              file is read by default.

       -h     Displays the command line help summary.

       -l print-level
              Sets  the  maximum  syslog  level  of  messages  which should be
              printed  or  sent  to  the  system  logger.  The  default  is  6
              (LOG_INFO).

       -m     Prints log messages to the standard output.

       -q     Prevents sending log messages to the system logger.

       -s device|name
              Specifies  the  source  of  the  PPS  signal.   Use the key word
              "generic" for an external 1-PPS without ToD  information.   When
              using a master PHC, the clock may be identified by its character
              device (like /dev/ptp0)  or  its  associated  network  interface
              (like eth0).  Use the key word "nmea" for an external 1-PPS from
              a GPS providing ToD information via the RMC NMEA sentence.

       -v     Prints the software version and exits.

LONG OPTIONS
       Each and every configuration file option (see below) may also appear as
       a  "long"  style  command  line  argument.  For example, the use_syslog
       option may be set using either of these two forms.

              --use_syslog 1   --use_syslog=1

       Option values given on the command line override values in  the  global
       section of the configuration file.

CONFIGURATION FILE
       The  configuration  file  is divided into sections. Each section starts
       with a line containing its name enclosed in  brackets  and  it  follows
       with  settings.  Each setting is placed on a separate line, it contains
       the name of the option and the value separated  by  whitespace  charac‐
       ters. Empty lines and lines starting with # are ignored.

       There are two different section types.

       1.     The  global  section  (indicated  as  [global]) sets the program
              options and default slave  clock  options.  Other  sections  are
              clock specific sections, and they override the default options.

       2.     Slave clock sections give the name of the configured slave (e.g.
              [eth0]).  Slave clocks specified in the configuration file  need
              not be specified with the -c command line option.

GLOBAL OPTIONS
       first_step_threshold
              The  maximum  offset,  specified in seconds, that the servo will
              correct by changing the clock frequency instead of stepping  the
              clock.  This  is  only  applied on the first update. When set to
              0.0, the servo will not step the clock on start.  The default is
              0.00002 (20 microseconds).

       free_running
              When set to 1, no the slave clock will be adjusted.  This option
              can be useful in test scenarios, for example  to  determine  how
              well  synchronized  a  group  of local clocks are to each other.
              The default is 0 (adjust the slave clocks).

       leapfile
              The path to the current leap  seconds  definition  file.   In  a
              Debian  system  this  file is provided by the tzdata package and
              can  be  found  at  /usr/share/zoneinfo/leap-seconds.list.   The
              default  is  an  empty string, which causes the program to use a
              hard coded table that reflects the known  leap  seconds  on  the
              date of the software's release.

       logging_level
              The  maximum  logging level of messages which should be printed.
              The default is 6 (LOG_INFO).

       max_frequency
              The maximum allowed frequency adjustment of the clock  in  parts
              per billion.  This is an additional limit to the maximum allowed
              by the hardware. When set to 0, the hardware limit will be used.
              The default is 900000000 (90%).

       message_tag
              The  tag  which is added to all messages printed to the standard
              output or system log.  The default is  an  empty  string  (which
              cannot  be  set in the configuration file as the option requires
              an argument).

       step_threshold
              The maximum offset, specified in seconds, that  the  servo  will
              correct  by changing the clock frequency instead of stepping the
              clock. When set to 0.0, the servo  will  never  step  the  clock
              except on start.  The default is 0.0.

       ts2phc.nmea_remote_host, ts2phc.nmea_remote_port
              Specifies  the serial port character device providing ToD infor‐
              mation when using the "nmea" PPS signal source.   Note  that  if
              these two options are both specified, then the given remote con‐
              nection will be used in  preference  to  the  configured  serial
              port.   These  options default to the empty string, that is, not
              specified.

       ts2phc.nmea_serialport
              Specifies the serial port character device providing ToD  infor‐
              mation  when  using  the "nmea" PPS signal source.  Note that if
              the         options,         ts2phc.nmea_remote_host         and
              ts2phc.nmea_remote_port,  are  both  specified,  then  the given
              remote connection will be used in preference to  the  configured
              serial port.  The default is "/dev/ttyS0".

       ts2phc.pulsewidth
              The  expected pulse width of the external PPS signal in nanosec‐
              onds.  When 'ts2phc.extts_polarity' is "both", the  given  pulse
              width  is  used  to  detect  and  discard  the time stamp of the
              unwanted edge.  The supported  range  is  1000000  to  990000000
              nanoseconds.  The default is 500000000 nanoseconds.

       use_syslog
              Print  messages  to the system log if enabled.  The default is 1
              (enabled).

       verbose
              Print messages to the standard output if enabled.   The  default
              is 0 (disabled).

SLAVE CLOCK OPTIONS
       ts2phc.channel
              The  external  time  stamping  or  periodic output channel to be
              used.  Some PHC devices feature programmable  pins  and  one  or
              more  time  stamping  channels.   This option allows selecting a
              particular channel to be used.  When using a PHC device  as  the
              PPS  source,  this  option  selects the periodic output channel.
              The default is channel 0.

       ts2phc.extts_correction
              The value, in nanoseconds, to be added to each PPS  time  stamp.
              The default is 0 (no correction).

       ts2phc.extts_polarity
              The  polarity  of  the  external  PPS signal, either "rising" or
              "falling".  Some PHC devices always time stamp both edges.  Set‐
              ting this option to "both" will allow the ts2phc program to work
              with such devices by detecting and ignoring the  unwanted  edge.
              In  this  case be sure to set 'ts2phc.pulsewidth' to the correct
              value.  The default is "rising".

       ts2phc.master
              Setting this option to 1 configures the given PHC device as  the
              source of the PPS signal.  The default is 0 for the slave role.

       ts2phc.pin_index
              The pin index to be used.  Some PHC devices feature programmable
              pins, and this option allows configuration of a  particular  pin
              for the external time stamping or periodic output function.  The
              default is pin index 0.

WARNING
       Be cautious when sharing the same  configuration  file  between  ptp4l,
       phc2sys, and ts2phc.  Keep in mind that values specified in the config‐
       uration file take precedence over the default  values.   If  an  option
       which is common to the other programs is set in the configuration file,
       then the value will be applied to all the programs using the file,  and
       this might not be what is expected.

       It  is  recommended  to  use  separate  configuration  files for ptp4l,
       phc2sys, and ts2phc in order to avoid any unexpected behavior.

SEE ALSO
       phc2sys(8) ptp4l(8)

linuxptp                         December 2019                       TS2PHC(8)
