TUXMATH(6)                                                                                      Games Manual                                                                                     TUXMATH(6)

NAME
       tuxmath - a math game for kids with Tux

DESCRIPTION
       "Tux, of Math Command" ("TuxMath," for short) is an educational arcade game starring Tux, the Linux mascot!  Based on the classic arcade game "Missile Command," Tux must defend his cities. In this
       case, though, he must do it by solving math problems.

       Use the number keys on the keyboard to answer math equations, and then hit the space bar or enter.  If you don't answer a comet's math equation before it hits one of your igloos, the igloo will be
       damaged.  If an igloo is hit twice, the penguin inside walks away.  When you lose all of your igloos, the game ends.

       There is also a "factoroids" game in which a ship destroys asteroids if you type a valid factor of the number for a particular asteroid.  Use the number keys to steer.

OPTIONS
       Note:  most  settings are now stored in a config file named 'options' in a hidden directory named './tuxmath' within the user's home directory.  The file consists of simple name/value pairs. It is
       much easier to edit this file to set game parameters than to use the command-line arguments listed below. Also, many options are not selectable from the command line. The config file contains  ex‐
       tensive comments detailing how to configure the behavior of Tuxmath.

       --help Display help for the command

       --version
              Display version and author information

       --homedir dirname
              seek  for  user home director(ies) in the specified location, rather than the user's actual home directory.  You can set up a user directory tree in this location (see README).  This option
              is especially useful for schools where all students log in with a single user name.

       --optionfile filename
              read config settings from named file. The locations searched for a file with a matching name are the current working directory, the absolute path of the filename, tuxmath's missions  direc‐
              tory, the user's tuxmath directory, and the user's home.

       --playthroughlist
              to ask each question only once, allowing player to win game if all questions successfully answered

       --answersfirst
              to ask questions in format: ? + num2 = num3 instead of default format: num1 + num2 = ?

       --answersmiddle
              to ask questions in format: num1 + ? = num3 instead of default format: num1 + num2 = ?

       --nosound
              to disable sound/music

       --nobackground
              to disable background photos (for slower systems)

       --fullscreen
              to run in fullscreen, if possible (vs. windowed)

       --windowed
              to run in a window rather than fullscreen

       --keypad
              to enable the on-sceen numeric keypad

       --demo to run the program as a cycling demonstration

       --speed S
              set initial speed of the game (S may be fractional, default is 1.0)

       --allownegatives
              to allow answers to be less than zero

       --debug-X
              prints debug information on command line.  X may be one of the following:
                  setup: debug messages only during initialization
                  fileops: file operations (loading and saving data)
                  loaders: loading of mulitmedia (images and sounds) titlescreen
                  menu: most operations dealing with menus
                  menu-parser: subset of operations dealing with menus
                  game: the comets game
                  factoroids: the factoroids game
                  lan: anything dealing with networking
                  mathcards: generation of math problems
                  sdl: the general graphical system
                  lessons: parsing pre-prepared lessons
                  highscore: loading and saving high scores
                  options: loading and saving options files
                  text-and-intl: text and internationalization
                  all: everything!

HISTORY
       2013-07-29: Updated for version 2.0.3 by Dmitry Smirnov.

       2004-12-17: First version of this manual page.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Fabio Brito <fabio@debian-ba.org> for the Debian GNU system (but may be used by others).

Fabio Brito                                                                                      2013-07-29                                                                                      TUXMATH(6)
