twoftpd-xfer(1)                                                        General Commands Manual                                                       twoftpd-xfer(1)

NAME
       twoftpd-xfer - TwoFTPD file transfer back-end.

SYNOPSIS
       twoftpd-xfer

DESCRIPTION
       twoftpd-xfer  reads  FTP request from the network and executes file transfers based on those requests.  Before doing anything, twoftpd-xfer changes directory
       to the authenticated user's home directory, changes the root directory to that directory, and drops all root priviledges.

ENVIRONMENT
       AUTHENTICATED
              If set (typically by twoftpd-auth after successfully completing authentication), the startup banner will use code 230, indicating that  authentication
              was successful.  Otherwise, the startup banner will use code 220, which is the normal initial connection banner.

       BANNER If set, the contents of this variable will be sent as extra responses when the server starts.

       CHROOT If set, change the root directory to the user's home directory through the OS chroot syscall.

       CONNECT_TIMEOUT
              The maximum number of seconds to wait for a data channel connection to complete.  If not set, it defaults to the value of $TIMEOUT.

       GID    Numerical group ID number to change to at program startup.

       GIDS   Optional comma-seperated list of numerical group IDs to set up as the supplementary group IDs.

       GROUP  Group name to use in long listings for files owned by $GID.  If not set, defaults to mygroup.

       HOME   Directory to switch to on program startup.

       LOCKHOME
              If set (and neither CHROOT nor SOFTCHROOT are set), all accesses to files and paths outside of HOME will be forbidden.

       LOGREQUESTS
              If set, all requests from the client will be logged.

       LOGRESPONSES
              If set, all responses to the client (after login) will be logged.

       MESSAGEFILE
              If  set,  the  contents  this  file  will  be automatically sent as extra responses to the client whenever the server enters a directory (including at
              startup).

       NODOTFILES
              If set, all listings will exclude all files starting with a period, and it will not be possible to do any file access (including storing  or  retriev‐
              ing) to any file starting with a period.  This may be useful for anonymous FTP servers.

       SESSION_TIMEOUT
              The maximum number of seconds to allow a single session to last.

       SOFTCHROOT
              If  set,  and  CHROOT is not set, the server emulates the effect of a chroot without actually effecting a chroot.  This eliminates the system-enforced
              barrier provided by the chroot, but allows for things like symlinks outside of the home directory.

       TCPLOCALIP
              The IP to use when creating PASV connections.  Normally, this is set by tcpserver.

       TCPREMOTEIP
              The source IP to use when creating PORT connections.  Normally, this is set by tcpserver.

       TIMEOUT
              The maximum number of seconds to wait for command input or connections.

       UID    Numerical user ID number to change to at program startup.

       USER   Owner name to use in long listings for files owned by $UID.

NOTES
       You will need to set the umask to an appropriate value before running this program.

       The twoftpd-anon program functions identically to this program, with the exception of having no file modification capabilities.  The twoftpd-drop program  is
       a similarly restricted program, that can only create new files (no overwriting, modifying, or listing existing files).

                                                                                                                                                     twoftpd-xfer(1)
