TzClock(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  TzClock(1)

NAME
       TzClock - Display the time around the world

SYNOPSIS
       TzClock [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
       TzClock  can display the time around the world.  It supports multiple faces showing different time zones.  There is also a stopwatch that is accurate to a tenth of a second.  Plus many other nice fea‐
       tures for you to discover.

   Options
       -a     Toggle always on top.

       -A     hh:mm:msg Set the alarm message to be shown at the specified time. For example: -A17:30:"Time to go home"

       -b     Toggle showing the small second hand.

       -B     Toggle showing the second hand bounce.

       -c     nnn#RRGGBB Change one of the clock colours. Details of the codes can be found below. For example: -cfce#1267FF

       -C     config.file Specify the configuration file to use. This file should be in your home directory.  The default file is: .tzclockrc

       -d     nnn:format Change one of the date formats. The format is the same as the date command with some extras.  Details of the codes can be found below. For example: -dftl:"%*"

       -f     face Select the face, for future settings, the faces are numbered left to right, top to bottom.  Some settings like timezone only effect one face so it is necessary to select the face first.

       -F     font Select the font to use on the clock face.

       -h     Switch off the second hand.

       -H     <name>:s:l:t Set the hand style, the name can be: hour, minute, second, sub_second, stopwatch or alarm. (s) The style is a number from [0-5] althought not all the syles  are  defined.  (l)  The
              length of the hand from the centre.  (t) The length of the tail in the other direction to the hand.  0 Quadratic (default), 1 Triangle, 2 Rectangle, 3 Pointer, 4 Arrow, 5 Simple line.

       -i     Use the clock icon from the current theme.

       -l     Toggle locking the screen position, stop drag and drop.

       -m     ts  Set the marker type and step, default -m13. (t) the marker type, (s) The step controls which hours have markers.  0 No markers, 1 Triangles (default), 2 Circles, 3 Latin digits, 4 Roman nu‐
              merals.

       -n     cnum or rnum Set the number of columns and rows. Note the maximum number of clocks is 36 with no more than 10 in a line. For example: -nc5 -nr3

       -o     city Specify you own city name for a timezone.

       -q     Quick time setting, no smooth scrolling.

       -s     size Set the size of each clock, the size is rounded to a multiple of 64.

       -S     Enable the stopwatch.

       -w     Put on all work-spaces.

       -x     posn Set the X screen position.

       -y     posn Set the Y screen position. Note, both X and Y must be set.

       -z     zone Select timezone to display. For example: -zLondon

       -24    Show a 24 hour clock.

       -?     Show command line help information.

COLOURS
       In order to change one of the colours you need to enter the colours code. See details of the -c option.

       cbf    Clock outer border when the face has focus.

       cbn    Clock outer border when the face does not have focus.

       cbi    Clock inner border.

       fce    Main clock face colour.

       fsw    Stopwatch face colour.

       txt    Colour of the text.

       cbf    Clock border when focused.

       cbn    Clock border not focused.

       cbi    Clock border inner circle.

       fce    Clock face colour.

       fsw    Stopwatch dial colour.

       txt    Information text colour.

       hrh    Hour hand outer colour.

       hhf    Hour hand fill colour.

       mnh    Minute hand outer colour.

       mhf    Minute hand fill colour.

       sch    Second hand outer colour.

       shf    Second hand fill colour.

       alh    Alarm hand outer colour.

       ahf    Alarm hand fill colour.

       swh    Stopwatch hand outer colour.

       swf    Stopwatch hand fill colour.

       hrm    Hour marker colour.

       mnm    Minute marker colour.

       swm    Stopwatch marker colour.

       qum    Quarter marker colour.

       qmf    Quarter marker fill colour.

DATES
       In order to change the format of one of the dates you need its code.

       ftl    Clock top in local-time.

       ftz    Clock top for timezone.

       stl    Stopwatch top in local-time.

       stz    Stopwatch top for timezone.

       fbl    Clock bottom in local-time.

       fbz    Clock bottom for timezone.

       sbl    Stopwatch bottom in local-time.

       sbz    Stopwatch bottom for timezone.

       wtl    Window title in local-time.

       wtz    Window title for timezone.

       cbl    Copy date time in local-time.

       cbz    Copy date time for timezone.

       cdl    Copy date in local-time.

       cdz    Copy date for timezone.

       ctl    Copy time in local-time.

       ctz    Copy time for timezone.

DATE FORMAT
       To specify a date format you can use the same format as the date command.  This way your locale information will be used. In addition to the date commands the are a few extra defined for the TzClock.

       %#     Time zone city, upper-cased and wrapped.

       %*     Time zone city.

       %@     Time zone area.

       %&     Stopwatch time: h:mm:ss.hh.

EXAMPLE
       Here is an example showing the command line for displaying four clocks showing different time zones. With changes to one of the colours and one of the dates.

       TzClock -l -nr2 -nc2 -f1 -u -f2 -h -u -z"Moscow" -f3 -h -u -z"London" -f4 -h -u -z"New York" -s128 -ccbn"#000000" -x100 -y200 -dwtl:"%H:%M, %a. %-d %b."

AUTHOR
       Written by Chris Knight.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <chris@theknight.co.uk>.

SEE ALSO
       date(1)

                                                                                                  11 Nov 2009                                                                                        TzClock(1)
