UGREP-INDEXER(1)                                                        User Commands                                                        UGREP-INDEXER(1)

NAME
       ugrep-indexer -- file indexer to accelerate recursive searching

SYNOPSIS
       ugrep-indexer [-0...9] [-c|-d|-f] [-I] [-q] [-S] [-s] [-X] [-z] [PATH]

DESCRIPTION
       The ugrep-indexer utility recursively indexes files to accelerate recursive searching with the ug --index PATTERN commands:

              $ ugrep-indexer [-I] [-z]

                ...

              $ ug --index [-I] [-z] [-r|-R] OPTIONS PATTERN

              $ ugrep --index [-I] [-z] [-r|-R] OPTIONS PATTERN

       where option -I or --ignore-binary ignores binary files, which is recommended to limit indexing storage overhead and to reduce search time.  Option -z
       or --decompress indexes and searches archives and compressed files.

       Indexing  speeds  up  searching  file systems that are large and cold (not recently cached in RAM) and file systems that are generally slow to search.
       Note that indexing may not speed up searching few files or recursively searching fast file systems.

       Searching with ug --index is safe and never skips modified files that may match after indexing; the ug --index PATTERN command always  searches  files
       and directories that were added or modified after indexing.  When option --stats is used with ug --index, a search report is produced showing the num‐
       ber of files skipped not matching any indexes and the number of files and directories that were added or modified after indexing.  Note that searching
       with  ug  --index  may significantly increase the start-up time when complex regex patterns are specified that contain large Unicode character classes
       combined with `*' or `+' repeats, which should be avoided.

       ugrep-indexer stores a hidden index file in each directory indexed.  The size of an index file depends on the number of files indexed and  the  speci‐
       fied  indexing accuracy.  Higher accuracy produces larger index files to improve search performance by reducing false positives (a false positive is a
       match prediction for a file when the file does not match the regex pattern.)

       ugrep-indexer accepts an optional PATH to the root of the directory tree to index.  The default is to index the working directory tree.

       ugrep-indexer incrementally updates indexes.  To force reindexing, specify option -f or --force.  Indexes are deleted with option -d or --delete.

       ugrep-indexer may be stopped and restarted to continue indexing at any time.  Incomplete index files do not cause errors.

       ASCII, UTF-8, UTF-16 and UTF-32 files are indexed and searched as text files unless their UTF encoding is invalid.  Files with other encodings are in‐
       dexed as binary files and can be searched with non-Unicode regex patterns using ug --index -U.

       When ugrep-indexer option -I or --ignore-binary is specified, binary files are ignored and not indexed.   Avoid  searching  these  non-indexed  binary
       files with ug --index -I using option -I.

       ugrep-indexer  option  -X  or  --ignore-files respects gitignore rules.  Likewise, avoid searching non-indexed ignored files with ug --index --ignore-
       files using option --ignore-files.

       Archives and compressed files are indexed with ugrep-indexer option -z or --decompress.  Otherwise, archives and compressed files are indexed  as  bi‐
       nary files or are ignored with option -I or --ignore-binary.  Note that once an archive or compressed file is indexed as a binary file, it will not be
       reindexed with option -z to index the contents of the archive or compressed file.  Only files that are modified after indexing are reindexed, which is
       determined by comparing time stamps.

       Symlinked files are indexed with ugrep-indexer option -S or --dereference-files.  Symlinks to directories are never followed.

       To  save a log file of the indexing process, specify option -v or --verbose and redirect standard output to a log file.  All messages and warnings are
       sent to standard output and captured by the log file.

       A .ugrep-indexer configuration file with configuration options is loaded when present in the working directory or in the home directory.  A configura‐
       tion option consists of the name of a long option and its argument when applicable.

       The following options are available:

       -0, -1, -2, -3, ..., -9, --accuracy=DIGIT
              Specifies indexing accuracy.  A low accuracy reduces the indexing storage overhead at the cost of a  higher  rate  of  false  positive  pattern
              matches (more noise).  A high accuracy reduces the rate of false positive regex pattern matches (less noise) at the cost of an increased index‐
              ing storage overhead.  An accuracy between 2 and 7 is recommended.  The default accuracy is 4.

       -., --hidden
              Index hidden files and directories.

       -?, --help
              Display a help message and exit.

       -c, --check
              Recursively check and report indexes without reindexing files.

       -d, --delete
              Recursively remove index files.

       -f, --force
              Force reindexing of files, even those that are already indexed.

       -I, --ignore-binary
              Do not index binary files.

       -q, --quiet, --silent
              Quiet mode: do not display indexing statistics.

       -S, --dereference-files
              Follow symbolic links to files.  Symbolic links to directories are never followed.

       -s, --no-messages
              Silent mode: nonexistent and unreadable files are ignored, i.e.  their error messages and warnings are suppressed.

       -V, --version
              Display version and exit.

       -v, --verbose
              Produce verbose output.  Files are marked A for archive, C for compressed, and B for binary or I for ignored binary.  Deletions are marked D.

       -X, --ignore-files, --ignore-files=FILE
              Do  not index files and directories matching the globs in FILE encountered during indexing.  The default FILE is `.gitignore'.  This option may
              be repeated to specify additional files.

       -z, --decompress
              Index the contents of compressed files and archives.  Hidden files in archives are ignored unless option -. or --hidden is  specified.   Option
              -I or --ignore-binary ignores compressed binary files.  When used with option --zmax=NUM, indexes the contents of compressed files and archives
              stored  within  archives up to NUM levels deep.  Supported compression formats: gzip (.gz), compress (.Z), zip, 7z, bzip2 (requires suffix .bz,
              .bz2, .bzip2, .tbz, .tbz2, .tb2, .tz2), lzma and xz (requires suffix .lzma, .tlz, .xz, .txz), lz4 (requires suffix .lz4), zstd (requires suffix
              .zst, .zstd, .tzst), brotli (requires suffix .br).

       --zmax=NUM
              When used with option -z (--decompress), indexes the contents of compressed files and archives stored within archives by up  to  NUM  expansion
              levels deep.  The default --zmax=1 only permits indexing uncompressed files stored in cpio, pax, tar, zip and 7z archives; compressed files and
              archives  are  detected  as  binary files and are effectively ignored.  Specify --zmax=2 to index compressed files and archives stored in cpio,
              pax, tar, zip and 7z archives.  NUM may range from 1 to 99 for up to 99 decompression and de-archiving steps.  Increasing NUM values  gradually
              degrades performance.

EXIT STATUS
       The ugrep-indexer utility exits with one of the following values:

       0      Indexes are up to date.

       1      Indexing check -c detected missing and outdated index files.

EXAMPLES
       Recursively and incrementally index all non-binary files showing progress:

              $ ugrep-indexer -I -v

       Recursively and incrementally index all non-binary files, including non-binary files stored in archives and in compressed files, showing progress:

              $ ugrep-indexer -z -I -v

       Incrementally  index all non-binary files, including archives and compressed files, show progress, follow symbolic links to files (but not to directo‐
       ries), but do not index files and directories matching the globs in .gitignore:

              $ ugrep-indexer -z -I -v -S -X

       Force re-indexing of all non-binary files, including archives and compressed files, follow symbolic links to files (but not to  directories),  but  do
       not index files and directories matching the globs in .gitignore:

              $ ugrep-indexer -f -z -I -v -S -X

       Same, but decrease index file storage to a minimum by decreasing indexing accuracy from 4 (the default) to 0:

              $ ugrep-indexer -f -0 -z -I -v -S -X

       Increase search performance by increasing the indexing accuracy from 4 (the default) to 7 at a cost of larger index files:

              $ ugrep-indexer -f7zIvSX

       Recursively delete all hidden ._UG#_Store index files to restore the directory tree to non-indexed:

              $ ugrep-indexer -d

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2021-2025 Robert A. van Engelen <engelen@acm.org>

       ugrep-indexer  is  released  under the BSD-3 license.  All parts of the software have reasonable copyright terms permitting free redistribution.  This
       includes the ability to reuse all or parts of the ugrep source tree.

SEE ALSO
       ug(1), ugrep(1).

BUGS
       Report bugs at:

              https://github.com/Genivia/ugrep-indexer/issues

ugrep-indexer 7.5.0                                                     June 18, 2025                                                        UGREP-INDEXER(1)
