UGSMOOTH(1)                  FlightGear man pages                  UGSMOOTH(1)

NAME
       UGsmooth - send UGear-formatted GPS data to a FlightGear instance

SYNOPSIS
       UGsmooth --help
           | --infile infile_name [options]...
           | --flight flight_dir [options]...
           | --serial dev_name --outfile outfile_name [options]...

DESCRIPTION
       UGsmooth  is  a utility that reads GPS data in UGear format from a text
       file, a directory containing flight data or from a device connected  to
       the  serial  port,  parses it and sends it to a FlightGear instance for
       replaying.

OPTIONS
       --help Display usage information and exit.

       --infile infile_name
              Read GPS data from infile_name.

       --flight flight_dir
              Read GPS data from the flight directory named flight_dir.

       --serial dev_name
              Read GPS data from the serial device named dev_name.

       --outfile outfile_name
              Save the data retrieved from the device to outfile_name.

       --hertz frequency
              Specify the frequency to use for sending data to the  FlightGear
              instance.  By default, events are sent at a frequency of 60 Hz.

       --host hostname
              Send the data to the FlightGear instance running on hostname.

              If  --host  is not specified, the default is to send the data to
              localhost.

       --broadcast
              Send flight data model and control data as broadcast packets.

       --opengc-port port
              Set the port OpenGC data should be sent to. By default, data  is
              sent to port 6000.

       --fdm-port port
              Set  the  port  flight data model data should be sent to. By de‐
              fault, data is sent to port 5505.

       --ctrls-port port
              Set the port control data should be sent to. By default, data is
              sent to port 5506.

       --groundtrack-heading
              Calculate  the aircraft heading from the GPS velocity instead of
              using the raw heading recorded by the device.

       --ground-speed
              Calculate the ground speed from the GPS velocity instead of  us‐
              ing the raw speed recorded by the device.

       --estimate-control-deflections
              Estimate control deflections from the angular velocities instead
              of using the raw deflections recorded by the device.

       --altitude-offset meters
              Add the specified offset (in meters) to  the  altitude  sent  to
              FlightGear.

       --skip-seconds seconds
              Do not transmit the first seconds seconds of data.

              This  option  is ignored when reading GPS data from a serial de‐
              vice.

       --no-real-time
              Do not update the elapsed time.

       --ignore-checksum
              Do not discard data with invalid checksums.

              This option is ignored when reading GPS data from a  flight  di‐
              rectory.

       --sg-swap
              Activate  the  special  double swap logic for the (non-standard)
              stargate double format.

EXIT STATUS
       UGsmooth exits with 0 on success, with -1 if the syntax of the command-
       line arguments is wrong or an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
       fgfs(1), GPSsmooth(1), MIDGsmooth(1)

FlightGear                        2017-06-25                       UGSMOOTH(1)
