UKIBOOTIMG(1)                                                                                  User Commands                                                                                  UKIBOOTIMG(1)

NAME
     ukibootimg - build, inspect and verify UKIBoot slot images

SYNOPSIS
     ukibootimg [OPTIONS] COMMAND [...]

DESCRIPTION
     ukibootimg  extracts  and  inspects the Unified Kernel Image (UKI) sections stored in UKIBoot partitions. It can read directly from a GPT disk image or from individual slot partition files, list and
     extract the PE sections of a UKI, print status information about the active slot, and verify the Authenticode signature of a UKI against a trusted certificate.

INPUT MODES
     At least one input source must be given. The --image mode and the individual --bootctl/--boot-a/--boot-b modes are mutually exclusive.

     --image PATH
            Read from a GPT disk image, locating the slot and control partitions automatically.

     --bootctl PATH
            Path to the ukibootctl partition or file, used to determine the active slot.

     --boot-a PATH
            Path to the ukiboot_a partition or file.

     --boot-b PATH
            Path to the ukiboot_b partition or file.

OPTIONS
     --output-dir DIR
            Directory to write extracted sections to. Default: the current directory.

     --slot a|b
            Force selection of slot A or B instead of using the active slot.

     --cert PATH
            Trusted certificate, in PEM format, used for signature verification.

     --verify
            Verify the UKI signature before extracting.

     --verbose
            Show verbose output.

     --help
            Show a brief help message and exit.

     --version
            Show the program version and exit.

COMMANDS
     extract [SECTION...]
            Extract the named PE sections to the output directory. If no section is specified, all sections are extracted.

     list   List the PE sections of the UKI together with their offsets and sizes.

     status
            Print the active slot, the OS name and version, the kernel version, the kernel command line, and the offset and size of the kernel and initrd.

     verify
            Verify the Authenticode signature of the UKI against the trusted certificate given with --cert.

EXIT STATUS
     ukibootimg exits 0 on success and non-zero on failure.

SEE ALSO
     ukibootctl(1)

AUTHOR
     UKIBoot was written by Alexander Larsson <alexl@redhat.com>.

     This manual page was written by Christopher Obbard <obbardc@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux project.

ukiboot                                                                                          2026-06-05                                                                                   UKIBOOTIMG(1)
