umount.davfs(8)                      1.6.0                     umount.davfs(8)

NAME
       umount.davfs - Umount-helper to unmount a davfs2 file system

SYNOPSIS
       umount.davfs [-h | --help] [-V | --version]
       umount dir

SYNOPSIS (root only)
       umount.davfs dir

DESCRIPTION
       umount.davfs  is a umount helper program. It is called by the umount(8)
       command. Its purpose is to prevent the umount  command  from  returning
       unless  mount.davfs has synchronized all its cached files with the web‐
       dav server.

       dir is the mountpoint where the WebDAV resource is mounted on.  It  may
       be an absolute or relative path.

       While for local file systems umount(8) will only return when all cached
       data have been written to disk, this is not automatically  true  for  a
       mounted  davfs2  file system. With this umount helper the user can rely
       on the familiar behaviour of umount(8). To inform the operating  system
       that  the  file system uses a network connection, you should always use
       the _netdev option, when mounting as davfs2 file system.

       Depending on the amount of data and the quality of the connection,  un‐
       mounting a davfs2 file system may take some seconds up to some hours.

       If  the mount.davfs daemon encountered serious errors, umount.davfs may
       return an error instead of unmounting the file system. In this case try
       umount   -i.   The  -i  option  will  prevent  umount(8)  from  calling
       umount.davfs.

OPTIONS
       -V --version
              Output version.

       -h --help
              Print a help message.

       -f -l -n -r -v -t
              This options are ignored. They are only recognized for  compati‐
              bility with umount(8).

FILES
       /var/run/mount.davfs
              PID-files of running umount.davfs processes are looked up here.

BUGS
       No known bugs.

AUTHORS
       This  man  page  was  written by Werner Baumann <werner.baumann@online‐
       home.de>.

DAVFS2 HOME
       http://savannah.nongnu.org/projects/davfs2

SEE ALSO
       mount.davfs(8), umount(8), davfs2.conf(5), fstab(5)

davfs2                            2014-08-23                   umount.davfs(8)
