UNIBETACODE(5)                                                                              File Formats Manual                                                                              UNIBETACODE(5)

NAME
       unibetacode - Format for polytonic Beta Code files

SYNOPSIS
       source_file.beta

DESCRIPTION
       Unibetacode  is  an  implementation of Beta Code, as adopted by the University of California, Irvine Thesaurus Linguae Graecae (TLG) Program and the Tufts University Perseus Project, among others.
       Beta Code provides a way of encoding polytonic Greek characters using plain ASCII characters.  The unibetacode package contains three utility programs: unibetaprep(1) converts  TLG-unique  numeric
       codes  to  Unicode code points, beta2uni(1) converts a Beta Code file to UTF-8 Unicode, and uni2beta(1) converts a UTF-8 Unicode file to Beta Code.  These programs can also process Coptic and some
       Hebrew, but historically the focus of Beta Code documents has been classical Greek.  The package also contains libunibetacode, which provides functions for conversion between Beta Code  and  UTF-8
       Unicode.

       A  Unicode code point is an assignment to a specific numeric value for glyphs and other entities in Unicode fonts.  Throughout this document, Unicode code points are given by their Unicode numeric
       values in the form U+xxxx, where "xxxx" is a string of four hexadecimal digits representing a glyph in the Unicode Basic Multilingual Plane.  This is the notational convention in The Unicode Stan‐
       dard and elsewhere.

       Note: Thesaurus Linguae Graecae and TLG are registered trademarks of the University of California.

GENERAL PUNCTUATION
   PUNCTUATION COMMON TO ALL MODES
       Regardless of the language mode (Greek, Latin, Coptic, or Hebrew), several punctuation marks are retained as is between the input file and the output file.  They are as follows:

               .        Full Stop (Period)

               ,        Comma

               ?        Question Mark (except in Greek mode, where it becomes a Combining Dot Below)

               !        Exclamation Mark

               ;        Semicolon / Greek Question Mark (see the Greek section below)

               [ ]      Square Brackets

   QUOTATION MARK STYLES
       The TLG Beta Code specification supports nine different styles of quotation mark.  While support of different styles is beneficial, this complicates round-trip conversion from Beta Code to Unicode
       and back.  This is further complicated by the same Unicode character being used as an opening quotation mark in one style and as a closing quotation mark in another style.

       Double quotes in the unibetacode package just use ASCII quotation marks in a Beta Code source file; the quotation style is determined by the language mode.  This greatly simplifies round-trip con‐
       version between Beta Code and a Unicode UTF-8 document.  Double quotation marks must be balanced.  The first quotation mark encountered will be interpreted as a left quotation mark for the  chosen
       style, the second will be interpreted as a right quotation mark, and so on.  Double quotation marks are converted as follows:

               Greek, Coptic
                        The opening double quotation mark is rendered as U+00AB, LEFT-POINTING DOUBLE ANGLE QUOTATION MARK.  The closing double quotation mark is rendered as U+00BB, RIGHT-POINTING DOUBLE
                        ANGLE QUOTATION MARK.

               Hebrew   The opening double quotation mark is rendered as U+201E, DOUBLE LOW-9 QUOTATION MARK.  The closing double quotation mark is rendered as U+201D, RIGHT DOUBLE QUOTATION MARK.

               Latin    The opening double quotation mark is rendered as U+201C, LEFT DOUBLE QUOTATION MARK.  The closing double quotation mark is rendered as U+201D, RIGHT DOUBLE QUOTATION MARK.

       Single  quotes  are  specified explicitly.  For Latin and Hebrew, they are specified with a grave accent (U+0060) for an opening single quote and an apostrophe (U+0027) for a closing single quote.
       For Greek and Coptic, they are specified with a "<" for an opening single quote and a ">" for a closing single quote.  The use of "<" and ">" for Greek and Coptic was a compromise so that an ASCII
       apostrophe in Greek mode would render as U+02BC, MODIFIER LETTER APOSTROPHE.  As with double quotation marks, the rendering of these characters is dependent on the language mode.  Single quotation
       marks are converted as follows:

               Greek, Coptic
                        The opening single quotation mark is rendered as U+2039, SINGLE LEFT-POINTING ANGLE QUOTATION MARK.  The closing single quotation mark is rendered as U+203A, SINGLE RIGHT-POINTING
                        ANGLE QUOTATION MARK.

               Hebrew   The opening single quotation mark is rendered as U+201A, SINGLE LOW-9 QUOTATION MARK.  The closing single quotation mark is rendered as U+2018, LEFT SINGLE QUOTATION MARK.

               Latin    The opening single quotation mark is rendered as U+2018, LEFT SINGLE QUOTATION MARK.  The closing single quotation mark is rendered as U+2019, RIGHT SINGLE QUOTATION MARK.

EXTENSIONS FOR ASCII AND UNICODE
       The unibetacode package includes two extensions to TLG Beta Code: one for efficiently inserting an ASCII string into text when not in Latin mode, and the other for inserting a Unicode  code  point
       in any language mode.  These are described in the following two sub-sections.

   ASCII STRING INSERTION
       An  ASCII  string can be enclosed in curly brackets when in a non-Latin language mode.  The string will be output verbatim.  This can be useful if a Greek text uses ASCII symbols, in order to pro‐
       duce a Greek document with an ASCII colon (':') rather than a Unicode "GREEK ANO TELEIA" character, U+0387.  The format is as follows:

               {ASCII-string}

       This is an extension to standard Beta Code; the TLG specification assigns a different use to '{'.  By itself, the use of '{' not followed by a decimal number is deprecated in  the  TLG  specifica‐
       tion, so this should avoid some conflict.  Curly brackets are not allowed in the string.

   SPECIAL UNICODE CHARACTER INSERTION
       The  original  Beta Code specification lists many numeric codes for producing special symbols that today have become part of The Unicode Standard.  In the future, it will likely be most beneficial
       if any specialized numeric codes for characters use Unicode code points rather than the historical TLG Beta Code numeric assignments.

       The unibetacode package allows any Unicode code point to be specified in hexadecimal (which is how The Unicode Standard provides them) as a string inside an ASCII '{'...'}' escape  sequence.   The
       Unicode hexadecimal code point of one to six digits is preceded by "\u", taking the form "\ux...x".  For example, strings such as

               {\u3d8} or {\u3D8} or {\u03D8}

       can  be  used  to insert the Unicode character U+03D8, GREEK LETTER ARCHAIC KOPPA, which does not have an associated Beta Code letter assignment.  Such Unicode code point strings can be mixed with
       other characters in the same string, as long as any character that follows the Unicode code point is not a hexadecimal digit of '0'-'9', 'A'-'F', or 'a'-'f'.

   NUMERIC DIGITS
       The numeric digits '0' through '9' are simply entered as '0' through '9', respectively, in any language mode.  The language modes are Coptic, Greek, Hebrew, and Latin.  They are described  in  the
       following sections.

GREEK
   LETTERS
       Capital and small letters can take the same set of accent marks, but the order in which these are specified differs between capital and small.

       Small  letters  are  given in Beta Code in this order: (1) letter, (2) breathing marks, (3) accents, and (4) iota subscript.  This follows the traditional typed appearance of small polytonic Greek
       letters, where breathing marks and then accent marks appear on top of the small letter, and iota subscripts appear below small long vowels.

       Capital letters are given in Beta Code in this order: (1) asterisk (which denotes a Capital letter), (2) breathing marks, (3) accents, (4) letter, and (5) iota subscript.  This follows the  tradi‐
       tional typed appearance of capital polytonic Greek letters, where breathing marks and then accent marks appear to the left of the capital letter, and iota subscripts appear to the right of capital
       long vowels.

       The letter mapping is as follows, in Greek alphabetical order.  Letters can be capital or small; generally speaking, small is easier to read, so it is the default output from uni2beta(1):

               *a or a    Capital or Small Alpha, respectively

               *b or b    Capital or Small Beta, resp.

               *g or g    Capital or Small Gamma, resp.

               *d or d    Capital or Small Delta, resp.

               *e or e    Capital or Small Epsilon, resp.

               *z or z    Capital or Small Zeta, resp.

               *h or h    Capital or Small Eta, resp.

               *q or q    Capital or Small Theta, resp.

               *i or i    Capital or Small Iota, resp.

               *k or k    Capital or Small Kappa, resp.

               *l or l    Capital or Small Lambda, resp.

               *m or m    Capital or Small Mu, resp.

               *n or n    Capital or Small Nu, resp.

               *c or c    Capital or Small Xi, resp.

               *o or o    Capital or Small Omicron, resp.

               *p or p    Capital or Small Pi, resp.

               *r or r    Capital or Small Rho, resp.

               *s or s    Capital or Small Sigma, resp.  Note: a small "s" is interpreted as middle (medial) sigma or final sigma depending upon the context.  To force one or the other, see the following
                          two entries.

               s1         Small Middle (Medial) Sigma

               s2 or j    Small Final Sigma

               *s3 or s3  Capital or Small Lunate Sigma, resp.

               *t or t    Capital or Small Tau, resp.

               *u or u    Capital or Small Upsilon, resp.

               *f or f    Capital or Small Phi, resp.

               *x or x    Capital or Small Chi, resp.

               *y or y    Capital or Small Psi, resp.

               *w or w    Capital or Small Omega, resp.

               *v or v    Capital or Small Digamma, resp.

       Example: "*to fws", "the light" (without accent marks).  This could also be written as "*TO FWS"; both capital and small letters give the same conversion into UTF-8.

   BREATHING MARKS AND ACCENTS
       These are the encodings of breathing marks and accents.  In Beta Code (as in written Greek), breathing marks appear before accents.

               )        Smooth Breathing

               (        Rough Breathing

               \        Grave accent

               /        Acute accent

               =        Circumflex

               +        Diaresis

               &        Macron

               ´        Breve

               ?        Combining Dot Below

       Example:  "*to\ fw=s", "the light", with a grave accent, or varia, over the omicron and a circumflex accent, or perispomeni, over the omega.  This could also be written as "*TO\ FW=S".  N.B.: Note
       that the case of the Latin letter does not matter for accent placement; it is only the case of the Greek letter that matters.  Greek capital letters are encoded with a preceding  asterisk,  so  in
       this example, "O\" and "W=" will appear as small UTF-8.

   IOTA SUBSCRIPT
       The iota subscript is the last character written after a long vowel with which it appears, whether the letter is capital or small.  It is denoted by a vertical bar:

               |        Iota subscript

   GREEK PUNCTUATION
       These are the punctuation symbols that the unibetacode package supports:

               .                  Period (Teleia)

               ,                  Comma

               :                  Middle Dot (Ano Teleia)

               ;                  Question Mark (Epotematiko)

               ´                  Apostrophe (Apostrophos)

               - (hyphen)         Hyphen (Pavla)

               _ (underscore)     Em Dash

               #                  Greek Number Sign

   UNICODE GREEK
       The  Greek  Extended  range of The Unicode Standard, U+1F00 - U+1FFF, contains 16 small and capital vowels that have identical representation in the Greek and Coptic range, U+0370 - U+03FF.  These
       are vowels with an "oxia" (acute) accent in the Greek Extended range; they have equivalent glyphs with a "tonos" (acute) accent in the Greek and Coptic range.  Because of this duplication, the use
       of these 16 Greek Extended glyphs is deprecated.  uni2beta(1) will convert those 16 characters to Beta Code, but beta2uni(1) will convert the resulting Beta Code into characters in the  Greek  and
       Coptic  range (U+0370 - U+03FF); it will not convert them back into Greek Extended glyphs.  The default settings in the libunibetacode library is to employ these 16 deprecated Unicode code points,
       but that can be modified; see the libunibetacode(3) man page for details.

       Also in the Greek Extended Unicode range, the TLG Project considers U+1FBF to be the equivalent of a smooth breathing mark, and uni2beta(1) will convert it as such.

LATIN (ASCII)
       To display ASCII characters, including the Latin letters 'A' through 'Z' and 'a' through 'z', begin with an ampersand ('&') character.  Switch back to Greek mode with a dollar sign  ('$')  charac‐
       ter.

       ASCII  characters  can  also  be  surrounded with curly brackets; for example, "{Here is some ASCII!}".  This is non-standard though; the TLG specification uses '&' and '$' to enter Latin and then
       switch back to Greek.

       For efficiency, beta2uni(1) is conditioned to interpret sequences that look like accented Greek as accented Greek.  Curly brackets can also be useful for overriding such interpretations.  For  ex‐
       ample, if a document contained the text

               ...(this is an example)

       The "e)" could be interpreted as a small epsilon with a smooth breathing mark above it.  To break this behavior, type

               ...(this is an example{}) or ...(this is an example{)}

       and the Unicode output from beta2uni(1) will appear as intended.  This technique will appear familiar to TeX users.

COPTIC
       To  display  Coptic  letters, begin with the character sequence "&100".  Switch back to Greek mode with a dollar sign ('$') character.  As with Greek Beta Code, capital Coptic letters in Beta Code
       begin with an asterisk ('*') and small Coptic letters do not.

       Note that unlike in Greek mode, the Coptic Beta Code letters are case-sensitive.  In general, Coptic letters derived from Demotic use lowercase Beta Codes and map to the Greek and  Coptic  Unicode
       script in the range U+03E2 - U+03EF; the rest of the Coptic letters use uppercase Beta Codes and map to the separate Coptic Unicode script in the range U+2C80 - U+2C8D.

       The encoding is as follows:

               *A or A    Capital or Small Alfa, respectively

               *B or B    Capital or Small Vida, resp.

               *G or G    Capital or Small Gamma, resp.

               *D or D    Capital or Small Dalda, resp.

               *E or E    Capital or Small Eie, resp.

               *V or V    Capital or Small Sou, resp.

               *Z or Z    Capital or Small Zata, resp.

               *H or H    Capital or Small Hate, resp.

               *Q or Q    Capital or Small Tethe, resp.

               *I or I    Capital or Small Iauda, resp.

               *K or K    Capital or Small Kapa, resp.

               *L or L    Capital or Small Laula, resp.

               *M or M    Capital or Small Mi, resp.

               *N or N    Capital or Small Ni, resp.

               *C or C    Capital or Small Ksi, resp.

               *O or O    Capital or Small O, resp.

               *P or P    Capital or Small Pi, resp.

               *R or R    Capital or Small Ro, resp.

               *S or S    Capital or Small Sima, resp.

               *T or T    Capital or Small Tau, resp.

               *U or U    Capital or Small Ua, resp.

               *F or F    Capital or Small Fi, resp.

               *X or X    Capital or Small Khi, resp.

               *Y or Y    Capital or Small Psi, resp.

               *W or W    Capital or Small Oou, resp.

               *s or s    Capital or Small Shei, resp.

               *f or f    Capital or Small Fei, resp.

               *k or k    Capital or Small Khei, resp.

               *h or h    Capital or Small Hori, resp.

               *j or j    Capital or Small Gangia, resp.

               *g or g    Capital or Small Shima, resp.

               *t or t    Capital or Small Dei, resp.

               \          Jinma (Grave) Accent

       Switch back to Greek mode by ending with a dollar sign ('$') character.

HEBREW
       The TLG specification only covers the basic Hebrew letters aleph through tav.  These letters map to the Hebrew Unicode script in the range U+05D0 - U+05EA.  Beta Codes are not defined in the spec‐
       ification for cantillation marks, Yiddish digraphs, etc.

       To display Hebrew letters, begin with the character sequence "&300".

       Note that unlike in Greek mode, the Hebrew Beta Codes are case-sensitive and they never begin with an asterisk ('*').

       The encoding is as follows:

              A    Alef

              b    Bet

              g    Gimel

              d    Dalet

              h    He

              v    Vav

              z    Zayin

              H    Het

              Q    Tet

              y    Yod

              k1   Middle Kaf

              k2   Final Kaf

              l    Lamed

              m1   Middle Mem

              m2   Final Mem

              n1   Middle Nun

              n2   Final Nun

              S    Samekh

              a    Ayin

              p1   Middle Pe

              p2   Final Pe

              T1   Middle Tsadi

              T2   Final Tsadi

              q    Qof

              r    Resh

              s    Shin

              t    Tav

       Switch back to Greek mode with a dollar sign ('$') character.

SAMPLES
       The directory "examples" in the source distribution  contains samples with mappings from Beta Code to UTF-8 and vice versa.  The "genesis-1-1.beta" and "genesis-1-1.utf8" files show the verse Gen‐
       esis 1:1 in Koine Greek (from the Septuagint), Hebrew, and Bohairic Coptic in Beta Code and UTF-8, respectively.

SEE ALSO
       unibetaprep(1), beta2uni(1), uni2beta(1), libunibetacode(3)

AUTHOR
       The unibetacode package was created by Paul Hardy.

LICENSE
       The unibetacode package is Copyright © 2018, 2019, 2020 Paul Hardy.

       This  program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the Li‐
       cense, or (at your option) any later version.

BUGS
       The format is very straightforward and no known bugs exist.  However, Beta Code has been evolving for almost 50 years, especially since the advent of Unicode.  As a result, many Beta  Code-encoded
       documents  exist  in  versions of the standard much older than the current version.  This version also does not implement many numbered codes that are contained in the TLG Beta Code specification.
       There are no plans to support the TLG Beta Code formatting codes, as that is beyond the scope of Unicode.

                                                                                                2019 Jan 26                                                                                  UNIBETACODE(5)
