unicode-screensaver(6x)                                                                  unicode-screensaver manual                                                                 unicode-screensaver(6x)

NAME
       unicode - displays unicode characters

SYNOPSIS
       unicode [-display host:display.screen] [-visual visual] [-window] [-root] [-fps] [-delay seconds] [-font font] [-foreground color] [-background color]

DESCRIPTION
       unicode-screensaver  is  a simple screensaver application that repeatedly randomly picks an unicode character and displays it in a very large font size together with its unicode code point and the
       character name.

OPTIONS
       -visual visual
               Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class, or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.

       -window Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.

       -root   Draw on the root window.

       -fps    Display the current frame rate and CPU load.

       -delay  Specify the delay in seconds before switching to a new character. Defaults to seven seconds.

       -font   Try the given font in addition to the built-in fonts (Open Symbol, and FreeSans).

       -background
               Set the background color (e.g. black, white, green, red). The default is white.

       -foreground
               Set the font color (e.g. black, white, green, red). The default is black.

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY to get the default host and display number.

       XENVIRONMENT
               to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.

SEE ALSO
       X(1), xscreensaver(1)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2009 by Joachim Breitner.  Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,  provided  that  the
       above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the suitability of
       this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.

AUTHOR
       Joachim Breitner

X Version 11                                                                                   Version 0.5.2                                                                        unicode-screensaver(6x)
