UNI(8)                                                                 System Manager's Manual                                                                UNI(8)

NAME
       uni - a program to interface with the UniConf configuration system

SYNOPSIS
       uni get KEY [DEFAULT]

       uni set KEY [VALUE]
       uni xset KEY [VALUE]

       uni keys KEY
       uni hkeys KEY
       uni xkeys KEY

       uni dump KEY
       uni hdump KEY
       uni xdump KEY

DESCRIPTION
       UniConf  is  the One True Configuration system that includes all the others because it has plugin backends and frontends. Or, less grandiosely, it's a light‐
       weight, distributed, cacheable tree of strings.

       uni is used to interface directly with the UniConf system.  It's primary use is for diagnostic purposes, but it can be used to add UniConf support  to  shell
       scripts.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE
       UNICONF
              Before using uni, you must tell it which UniConf moinker you wish to query by setting this environment variable.

       Monikers are used to contact UniConf back-ends, be they a uniconfd server, or a local file.  For example, they could be:
           • a filename (ini:/var/lib/app/config.ini),
           • or a network address, (tcp:open.nit.ca:4111).

COMMANDS
       get    Retrieve  the  VALUE  associated with the provided KEY within the UniConf database.  If a DEFAULT is provided, this will be returned if the KEY has no
              associated VALUE.

       set    Assign the provided VALUE the the provided KEY.  UniConf provides no guarentee that the entry committed throughout the database.  The next “get”  com‐
              mand for this KEY may not return the most recently “set” value due to caching, or the existance of a read-only generator.

       xset   Assign, to the provided KEY, the contents of the standard-input stream.  Use this command to pipe information into the UniConf database.

       keys   List all the sub-keys contained within the provided KEY.

       hkeys  List  all  the sub-keys, recursively, contained within the provided KEY.  Since any KEY may contain sub-keys, UniConf provides no guarentee that there
              are no circular references.

       xkeys  List all the sub-keys contained within the provided KEY, which can contain wildcards.  See the WILDCARDS section.

       dump   List all the sub-keys and their values, contained within the provided KEY.

       hdump  List all the sub-keys and their values, recursively, contained within the provided KEY.

       xdump  List all the sub-keys and their values, contained within the provided KEY, which can contain wildcards.

WILDCARDS
       A KEY looks just like a normal slash-delimited path.  The root of the UniConf tree has a KEY named “/”.  Sub-keys can be accessed by names  such  as  “/soft‐
       ware/myapp/version”.

       With wildcards, you can access more than one key at a time.

       *      To  access  a sub-key within any one level of keys, use the asterix like so: “/software/*/version”.  This retrieves all keys of “version” that are one
              level beneath “/software”.

       ...    To access a sub-key anywhere beneath a key, use the ellipsis like so: “/.../version”.  This retrieves all keys of “version” that are zero or more lev‐
              els beneath the root (i.e.  any appearance of “version” within the database.

SEE ALSO
       uniconfd(8)

AUTHORS
       This software was written by the hackers at Net Integration Technologies.  Contact us at <wvstreams-dev@lists.nit.ca>

Uni 4.2.2                                                                  September 2004                                                                     UNI(8)
