UNIFONT(5)                                                                                    File Formats Manual                                                                                    UNIFONT(5)

NAME
       Unifont - a bitmapped font with full Unicode Plane 0 (BMP) coverage

SYNOPSIS
       unifont.hex

DESCRIPTION
       Unifont  is  a  bitmapped  font  with  glyphs  described  in  a plain text file, generically referred to as unifont.hex herein.  This man page describes the format of three related files: unifont.hex,
       masks.hex, and combining.txt.  All three of these files start with a Unicode code point as a hexadecimal string, with code points appearing in ascending order.

       A unifont.hex file consists of single-line entries for each Unicode code point.  Each line contains the code point, a colon (':') field separator, and the glyph bitmap.  The glyphs  in  a  unifont.hex
       format file must appear in ascending Unicode code point order.

       This file can be converted into a BDF font using the hex2bdf(1) program, and into a TrueType font using fontforge(1) (which is not part of this package).  The BDF font can also be converted into a PCF
       font using bdftopcf(1) (which is also not part of this package).

       The first field
              The first field is the Unicode code point in hexadecimal, ranging from "0000" through "10FFFF", inclusive.  This corresponds to the Unicode code points U+0000 through U+10FFFF, respectively.

       The second field
              The second field is the glyph's bitmap string.  This is a series of hexadecimal digits.  Currently Unifont encodes two glyph sizes: 8 pixels wide by 16 pixels tall (single-width), and 16 pixels
              wide  by  16 pixels tall (double-width).  A third format of 32 pixels wide (drawn as 31 pixels plus a pixel on the right that is always blank) by 16 pixels tall (quadruple-width) is also avail‐
              able, but only for experimental use.

              As each hexadecimal digit can encode four bits, one pixel row of a glyph is either two hexadecimal digits long (single-width) or four hexadecimal digits long (double-width).  The glyphs are  16
              pixels tall, so a single-width glyph is (2)(16) = 32 hexadecimal digits long and a double-width glyph is (4)(16) = 64 hexadecimal digits long.

       Previous  versions  of  this  package supplied a file named masks.hex.  This file followed the same format as unifont.hex with a first field that was a Unicode code point in hexadecimal, followed by a
       colon (':') field separator, followed by a second field that was a hexadecimal string representing a glyph bitmap.  Code points were in ascending order.  The glyph bitmaps were bitmaps that  would  be
       exclusive-ored  with  the  glyph  in unifont.hex that had the same code point.  The original unifont.hex contained combining circles as depicted in The Unicode Standard.  When Paul Hardy got combining
       characters to display properly in the TrueType version, it became desirable to remove these combining circles for proper display with unifont.ttf.  The program uniunmask(1) will read such a  masks.hex
       file, read a unifont.hex format file, and apply the exclusive-or masks in masks.hex to unifont.hex.  The output is another file in unifont.hex format with the masked-off bits (i.e., combining circles)
       removed.

       Because the operation is an exclusive-or, masks.hex could also be used to turn on pixels in selective glyphs, for example to add combining circles to selective glyphs that do not show them.   However,
       the  program  unigencircles(1)  can  do this without a separate masks.hex file.  Thus masks.hex is no longer supplied with this package.  uniunmask(1) remains part of this distribution in case someone
       might find creating a custom masks.hex file useful for another purpose.

       The TrueType version of the font, unifont.ttf, and the unigencircles(1) utility both read a file combining.txt.  This file appears in the directory font/ttfsrc.  The combining.txt file is  a  list  of
       code  points as hexadecimal strings, one per line in ascending order, of Unicode code points that show combining circles in The Unicode Standard.  Any glyph with its code point listed in combining.txt
       will have zero width in unifont.ttf.

UTILITIES
       Roman Czyborra, the font's creator, originally wrote two Perl scripts as utilities: bdfimplode(1) and hexdraw(1).

       The bdfimplode(1) Perl script reads in a font in BDF format and generates a font output in unifont.hex format.

       The hexdraw(1) Perl script might appear somewhat magical.  It can read a file in unifont.hex format and generate a text file with each glyph appearing as a grid of characters in an 8 by 16 or 16 by 16
       grid:  a '-' character indicates a corresponding white pixel, and a '#' character indicates a corresponding black pixel.  These pixel grids are indented with a single tab character.  The first line of
       each glyph first shows the code point for the glyph, followed by a colon (':').  The 16 lines that graphically represent each glyph are followed by one blank line.  This text file can then be modified
       with  any text editor.  The magical part about hexdraw(1) is that it will read in this text file, detect that it is in this converted format, and produce as output a second file in Unifont's .hex for‐
       mat.  Thus hexdraw(1) automagically provides round-trip coverage between an original font file in unifont.hex format and an intermediate text graphics format for editing.

       Utilities introduced after those first two convert a file in unifont.hex format to and from bitmapped graphics (".bmp") files.  The unihex2bmp(1) program converts a file in unifont.hex format  into  a
       .bmp format file, for editing with a graphics editor.  The unibmp2hex(1) program performs the reverse conversion, from a bitmapped graphics format back to a file in unifont.hex format.

       hexdraw(1),  unihex2bmp(1),  and  unibmp2hex(1)  are  the  central  programs that handle conversion of a unifont.hex file to and from two-dimensional glyph representations for visual editing.  See the
       doc/unifont.info texinfo file included in the source package for more information on these and other utilities to customize unifont.hex format files.  Also consult the  man  pages  for  the  utilities
       listed below.

FILES
       The following files are part of the Unifont source distribution:

       font/plane*/*.hex
                      GNU Unifont font files

       LICENSE        The Unifont license

       README         Instructions on building Unifont

       doc/unifont.info
                      Tutorial in texinfo format on customizing Unifont

SEE ALSO
       bdfimplode(1),  hex2bdf(1),  hex2sfd(1),  hexbraille(1), hexdraw(1), hexkinya(1), hexmerge(1), johab2ucs2(1), unibdf2hex(1), unibmp2hex(1), unibmpbump(1), unicoverage(1), unidup(1), unifont-viewer(1),
       unifont1per(1), unifontchojung(1), unifontksx(1),  unifontpic(1),  unigencircles(1),  unigenwidth(1),  unihex2bmp(1),  unihex2png(1),  unihexfill(1),  unihexgen(1),  unihexrotate(1),  unipagecount(1),
       unipng2hex(1)

AUTHOR
       The unifont.hex format was created by Roman Czyborra, who drew the original set of glyphs.

LICENSE
       unifont is Copyright © 1998 Roman Czyborra, with portions Copyright © 2007–2013 Paul Hardy, Copyright © 2004–2013 Qianqian Fang, and others.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License,
       or (at your option) any later version.

BUGS
       The format is very straightforward and no real bugs exist.  However, Unifont's original BDF font format does not support Unicode's combining characters (accents, etc.); only the  TrueType  version  of
       Unifont does.

                                                                                                  2020 Jul 03                                                                                        UNIFONT(5)
