unitdiff(1)                                                                                FPC unit difference viewer                                                                               unitdiff(1)

NAME
       unitdiff - Describe differences in the interface of a FPC unit.

SYNOPSIS
       unitdiff [ --disable-arguments] [ --disable-private] [ --disable-protected] [ --help] [ --lang=language] [ --list] [ --output=filename] [ --sparse] file1 file2

Description
       unitdiff scans one or two Free Pascal unit source files and either lists all available identifiers, or describes the differences in identifiers between the two units.

Usage
       You can invoke unitdiff with as the only required argument a input filename. It will then simply list all available identifiers.

       The  regular use is to invoke unitdiff with input1 input2 arguments. It will then show the difference in interface between the two units, or list the available identifiers in both units. The output of
       unitdiff will go to standard output by default.

Options
       unitdiff has some options, most of them optional, defaults will be used in most cases.

       --disable-arguments
              If this option is specified, unitdiff will not check the arguments of functions and procedures. By default, these are checked as well.

       --disable-private
              By default, private methods of classes are checked. if this option is specified, private fields or methods are not checked.

       --disable-protected
              By default, protected  methods of classes are checked. if this option is specified, protected and private fields or methods are not checked.

       --help Emit a short help text and exit.

       --lang=language
              Sets the language for the output file. This will mainly set the strings used for the headers in various parts of the documentation files  (by  default  they're  in  english).  Currently,  valid
              options are

              de     German.

              fr     French.

              nl     Dutch.

       --list If this option is specified, only the list of available identifiers will be specified for the unit or units. If only 1 unit is specified, this option is automatically assumed.

       --output=filename
              This option tells unitdiff where the output should go. If this option is not specified, the output is sent to standard output (the screen).

       --sparse
              Turns on sparse mode. In this mode, the output will not contain the types of the identifiers. Only the names of the identifiers are written to the output. By default, also type descriptions are
              written.

SEE ALSO
              ppc386(1) fpdoc(1)

Free Pascal                                                                                     14 November 2004                                                                                    unitdiff(1)
