URLWATCH-DEPRECATED(7)                                                                    urlwatch  Documentation                                                                    URLWATCH-DEPRECATED(7)

NAME
       urlwatch-deprecated - Documentation of feature deprecation in urlwatch

       As features are deprecated and cleaned up, they are documented here with steps to update your configuration for replacements.

NETWORKIDLE0 AND NETWORKIDLE2 FOR WAIT_UNTIL IN BROWSER JOBS (SINCE 2.28)
       Since version 2.28, execution of browser jobs uses Playwright instead of pyppetteer.

       The  previously-supported  wait_until  values of networkidle0 and networkidle2 are not supported anymore. Playwright supports the values load, domcontentloaded, networkidle (discouraged) or commit
       instead.

       Existing settings of networkidle0 and networkidle2 will be mapped to networkidle, and a warning will be issued. To silence the warning and continue to use  networkidle,  specify  wait_until:  net‐
       workidle explicitly.

FILTERS WITHOUT SUBFILTERS (SINCE 2.22)
       In older urlwatch versions, it was possible to write custom filters that do not take a subfilter as argument.

       If you have written your own filter code like this:

          class CustomFilter(filters.FilterBase):
              """My old custom filter"""

              __kind__ = 'foo'

              def filter(self, data):
                  ...

       You have to update your filter to take an optional subfilter argument (if the filter configuration does not have a subfilter defined, the value of subfilter will be None):

          class CustomFilter(filters.FilterBase):
              """My new custom filter"""

              __kind__ = 'foo'

              def filter(self, data, subfilter):
                  ...

STRING-BASED FILTER DEFINITIONS (SINCE 2.19)
       With  urlwatch 2.19, string-based filter lists are deprecated, because they are not as flexible as dict-based filter lists and had some problems (e.g. : and , are treated in a special way and can‐
       not be used in subfilters easily).  If you have a filter definition like this:

          filter: css:body,html2text:re,strip

       You can get the same results with a filter definition like this:

          filter:
            - css:
                selector: body
            - html2text:
                method: re
            - strip

       Since selector is the default subfilter for css, and method is the default subfilter for html2text, this can also be written as:

          filter:
            - css: body
            - html2text: re
            - strip

       If you just have a single filter such as:

          filter: html2text

       You can change this filter to dict-based using:

          filter:
            - html2text

KEYRING SETTING IN SMTP REPORTER CONFIGURATION (SINCE 2.18)
       Since version 2.18, the SMTP reporter configuration now uses auth to decide if SMTP authentication should be done or not. Previously, this setting was called keyring. If you have an old configura‐
       tion like this:

          report:
            email:
              smtp:
                host: localhost
                keyring: false
                port: 25
                starttls: true
              subject: '{count} changes: {jobs}'

       You can change the setting to this (replace keyring with auth):

          report:
            email:
              smtp:
                host: localhost
                auth: false
                port: 25
                starttls: true
              subject: '{count} changes: {jobs}'

COPYRIGHT
       2024 Thomas Perl

urlwatch                                                                                        Oct 28, 2024                                                                         URLWATCH-DEPRECATED(7)
