user-session-migration(1)                                                                   Linux User's Manual                                                                   user-session-migration(1)

NAME
       user-session-migration - Migrate in-session user data.

SYNOPSIS
       user-session-migration [options]

DESCRIPTION
       The user-session-migration program can be used to migrate in-session user data when a program is evolving its configuration, or needing to have files moved and so on. This program is generally au‐
       tostarted at the very beginning of the session and integrates caching capabilities.

       The  general  usage  is  to ship an executable file in XDG_DATA_DIR/user-session-migration/scripts. This one will be executed the next time the user log into the session. It will executes all exe‐
       cutable files there in ascii order, one after another.

       If a scripts exits with a non-zero exit code, the migration will be retried again at next login and an error will be reported.  In case a scripts exits with the special exit-code 77,  it  will  be
       considered an explicit skip, and no error will be reported.

       Even if the program tries to cache some timestamp and scripts to not be launched twiced (they are skipped on subsequent runs), the executables file should be idempotent.

OPTIONS
       --dry-run
              This parameter enables to run the user-session-migration tool without really launching the scripts and marking them are migrated. It's generally used with --verbose for debugging purposes.

       --file filename
              This  parameter,  followed  by  a  path or filename, tells sesions-migration to only consider that script file and ignoring XDG_DATA_DIR. It won't log as well this special file as being mi‐
              grated.

       --help Display a quick command help.

       --verbose
              Show a lot of verbose information. It can be used by the user to debug configuration issues;

                                                                                                28 Aug 2025                                                                       user-session-migration(1)
