USERV(1)                                                            General Commands Manual                                                          USERV(1)

NAME
       userv — request user services

SYNOPSIS
       userv [option ...] [--] service-user service-name [argument ...]
       userv [option ...] -B | --builtin [--] builtin-service [info-argument ...]

DESCRIPTION
       userv is used to have a task performed under different userid while maintaining limited trust between caller and callee.

       service-user  specifies which user account is to perform the task.  The user may be a login name or a numeric uid, or ‘-’ to indicate that the service
       user is to be the same as the calling user.

       The service name is interpreted by the userv daemon on behalf of the service user.  This is controlled by configuration files in  the  service  user's
       filespace; consult the userv specification for details.

OPTIONS
       Single-letter options may be combined as is usual with Unix programs, and the value for such an option may appear in the same argument or in the next.

       -B | --builtin
                   Requests  that  a  builtin  service  be  provided.   This  is  equivalent to using the --override option to specify a string consisting of
                   ‘execute-builtin’ followed by the builtin-service requested, and requesting a service user of ‘-’ (indicating the calling user).

                   If the builtin service being requested requires a service-argument then this must be supplied to the client in the same  argument  as  the
                   builtin-service.  See the specification, or the output of
                         userv -B help
                   for details of the builtin services available, and below for details of the --override options.

                   The  actual  service name passed will be the builtin-service; note that this actual service name (as opposed to the override data) and the
                   info-arguments supplied will be ignored by most builtin services; the override mechanism and ‘execute-builtin’ will be used to ensure that
                   the right builtin service is called with the right service-arguments.

       -f | --file fd[fdmodifiers]=filename
                   Requests that data be copied in and out of the service using pipes.  For each file or descriptor this will be done by creating a pipe, one
                   end of which is passed to the service program and the other end of which is passed to a copy of cat invoked by the client; the other  file
                   descriptor  passed to cat will be one inherited by the client program from the caller or one opened by the client program on behalf of the
                   caller.

                   The descriptor in the service program that should be connected must be specified as fd, either as a  decimal  number  or  as  one  of  the
                   strings  ‘stdin’,  ‘stdout’  or  ‘stderr’.   The next argument is a filename which will be opened by the client with the privileges of the
                   calling user.

                   modifiers is used to specify whether the file or descriptor is to be read from or written to.  It consists of a series of words  separated
                   by commas.  A comma may separate the modifiers from the fd and is required if fd is not numeric.  The modifier words are:

                   read              O_RDONLY: Allow reading and not writing.  May not be used with ‘write’ or things that imply it.

                   write             O_WRONLY:  Allow writing and not reading.  Doesn't truncate or create without ‘truncate’ or ‘create’.  ‘write’ or things
                                     that imply it may not be used with ‘read’.

                   overwrite         Equivalent to ‘write,create,truncate’.

                   create, creat     O_CREAT: Creates the file if necessary.  Implies ‘write’.

                   exclusive, excl   O_EXCL: Fails if the file already exists. Implies write and create. May not be used with ‘truncate’.

                   truncate, trunc   O_TRUNC: Truncate any existing file.  Implies ‘write’.  May not be used with ‘exclusive’.

                   append            O_APPEND: All writes will append to the file.  Implies ‘write’ (but not ‘create’).

                   sync              O_SYNC: Do writes synchronously.  Implies ‘write’.

                   wait, nowait, close
                                     These modifiers control the behaviour of the client, with respect to the pipes carrying data to and  from  the  service,
                                     when the service terminates.  See below.

                   fd                The  filename is not a filename but a numeric file descriptor.  One or both of ‘read’ and ‘write’ must be specified, and
                                     no other words are allowed.  The filename may also be ‘stdin’, ‘stdout’ or ‘stderr’ for file descriptor 0, 1  or  2  re‐
                                     spectively.

                   If  no modifiers which imply ‘read’ or ‘write’ are used it is as if ‘write’ had been specified, except that if the filedescriptor 0 of the
                   service is being opened (either specified numerically or with ‘stdin’) it is as if ‘overwrite’ had been specified (or ‘write’ if only ‘fd’
                   was specified).

                   The client will also use O_NOCTTY when opening files specified by the caller, to avoid changing its controlling terminal.

                   By default stdin, stdout and stderr of the service will be connected to the corresponding descriptors on the client.  Diagnostics from the
                   client and daemon will also appear on stderr.

                   If ‘wait’ is specified, the client will wait for the pipe to be closed, and only exit after this has happened.  This means that either the
                   receiving end of the pipe connection was closed while data was still available at the sending end, or that the end of file was reached  on
                   the  reading  file  descriptor.   Errors  encountered reading or writing in the client at this stage will be considered a system error and
                   cause the client to exit with status 255, but will not cause disconnection at the service side since the service has already exited.

                   If ‘close’ is specified the client will immediately close the pipe connection by killing the relevant copy of cat.  If  the  service  uses
                   the  descriptor  it  will  get  SIGPIPE  (or EPIPE) for a writing descriptor or end of file for a reading one; the descriptor opened by or
                   passed to the client will also be closed.

                   If ‘nowait’ is specified then the client will not wait and the connection will remain open after the client terminates.  Data may continue
                   to be passed between the inheritors of the relevant descriptor on the service side and the corresponding file or descriptor on the  client
                   side until either side closes their descriptor.  This should not usually be specified for stderr (or stdout if ‘--signals stdout’ is used)
                   since diagnostics from the service side may arrive after the client has exited and be confused with expected output.

                   The default is ‘wait’ for writing file descriptors and ‘close’ for reading ones.

       -w | --fdwait fd=action
                   Sets  the  action on termination of the service for the specified file descriptor; action must be ‘wait’, ‘nowait’ or ‘close’ as described
                   above.  The file descriptor must be specified as open when this option is encountered; this option is overridden by any  later  --file  or
                   --fdwait  option  -  even by a --file which does not specify an action on termination (in this case the default will be used, as described
                   above).

       -D | --defvar name=value
                   Set a user-defined variable name to value.  These user-defined variables are made available in the configuration language as  the  parame‐
                   ters  ‘u-name’  and are passed to the service in environment variables USERV_U_name.  name may contain only alphanumerics and underscores,
                   and must start with a letter.  If several definitions are given for the same name then only the last is effective.

       -t | --timeout seconds
                   Time out the service if it takes longer than seconds seconds (a positive integer, in decimal).   Timeout  will  produce  a  diagnostic  on
                   stderr and an exit status of 255.  If seconds is zero then no timeout will be implemented (this is the default).

       -S | --signals method
                   Affects  the  handling of the exit status when the service terminates due to a signal.  (The client will always finish by calling _exit(),
                   so that only numbers from 0 to 255 can be returned and not the full range of numbers and signal indications which can be returned  by  the
                   wait() family of system calls.)

                   The method may be one of the following:

                   status            The  client's  exit  status will be status.  This will not be distinguishable from the service really having exited with
                                     code status.  This method is the default, with a status of 254.

                   number, number-nocore
                                     The client's exit status will be the number of the signal which caused the termination of the service.  If  ‘number’  is
                                     used rather than ‘number-nocore’ then 128 will be added if the service dumped core.  ‘number’ is very like the exit code
                                     mangling done by the Bourne shell.

                   highbit           The  client's  exit  status will be the number of the signal with 128 added.  If the service exits normally with an exit
                                     code of greater than 127 then 127 will be returned.

                   stdout            The service's numeric wait status as two decimal numbers (high byte first) and a textual description of its meaning will
                                     be printed to the client's standard output.  It will be preceded by a newline and followed by an extra newline, and  the
                                     numbers  are separated from each other and from the textual description by single spaces.  The exit status of the client
                                     will be zero, unless a system error occurs in which case no exit status and description will be printed to  stdout,  and
                                     an error message will be printed to stderr as usual.

                                     Problems such as client usage errors, the service not being found or permission being denied or failure of a system call
                                     are  system  errors.   An  error message describing the problem will be printed on the client's stderr, and the client's
                                     exit status will be 255.  If the client dies due to a signal this should be treated as a serious system error.

       -H | --hidecwd
                   Prevents the calling process's current directory name from being passed to the service; the null string will be passed instead.

       -P | --sigpipe
                   If the service program is terminated due to a SIGPIPE the exit status of the client will be zero, even if it  would  have  been  something
                   else  according  to  the  exit  status method specified.  This option has no effect on the code and description printed if the exit status
                   method ‘stdout’ is in use.

       -h | --help
                   Prints the client's usage message.

       --copyright
                   Prints the copyright and lack of warranty notice.

SECURITY-OVERRIDING OPTIONS
       There are also some options which are available for debugging and to allow the system administrator to override a user's policy.   These  options  are
       available only if the client is called by root or if the calling user is the same as the service user.

       --override configuration-data

       --override-file file
                   Do  not  read  the  usual  configuration  files.   Instead, the client sends configuration-data (followed by a newline) or the contents of
                   filename (which is opened in the context of the client) to the daemon and the daemon uses that data instead.  The configuration-data  must
                   all  be  in one argument.  It will have a single newline appended so that a single directive can easily be given, but if more than one di‐
                   rective is required it will have to contain one or more real newlines.

       --spoof-user user
                   Pretend to the service that it is being called by user (which may be a username or a uid).  This will also affect the group and supplemen‐
                   tary groups supplied to the service; they will be the standard group and supplementary groups for user.  The --spoof-user option will  not
                   affect which user is chosen if the service user is specified as just ‘-’; in this case the service user will be the real calling user.

ENVIRONMENT
       LOGNAME, USER    These  are used to determine the name of the calling user, to be passed to the service in USERV_USER.  Their values will only be used
                        if they correspond to the calling UID.

FILES
       /var/run/userv/socket             Unix-domain socket used for communication between userv and uservd.

       /var/run/userv/%x.%x.%x           Pipes used for connecting file descriptors in the client and the service.

SEE ALSO
       uservd(8)

       Ian Jackson, User service daemon and client specification.

COPYRIGHT
       GNU userv is copyright Ian Jackson and other contributors.  See README or userv --copright for full authorship information.

       GNU userv is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public Licence, version 3 or (at your option) any later version, and it comes  with  NO  WAR‐
       RANTY, not even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with userv, if not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/

HISTORY
       userv was initially written in 1996 by Ian Jackson.  It became GNU userv in 1999, and version 1.0 was released in 2000.

userv                                                                  November 3, 1999                                                              USERV(1)
