USWAP(1)                                                                                    General Commands Manual                                                                                    USWAP(1)

NAME
       uswap - converts the endianness of a Fortran unformatted file

SYNOPSIS
       uswap [ -x ] [ -csfde.....  ] [ -i infile ] [ -o outfile ]

DESCRIPTION
       uswap  converts the endianness of a file written with Fortran's unformatted write command. Thus a dump file written on a big endian machine can be converted to be read on a little endian machine.  The
       input and output files may be named, otherwise standard input and standard output are read/written to.

       By default the records are assumed to contain data of 4 bytes size, such as the default integer, logical, complex and real types. The size of the records can be set on the command line,

              -c     character data

              -s     short data (eg: integer*2, logical*2)

              -f     float data (eg: integer, real, logical, complex)

              -d     double precision data (eg: integer*8, real*8, double precision, double complex).

              -e     extended precision data (eg: real*16, extended precision).

       The following examples shows how a data file containing a character record, a double precision record, and a number of single precision records can be converted;
            uswap -cdf -i infile -o outfile

       See uread(1) to read the number of records in a Fortran unformatted data file, and to guess the record contents.

       By default uswap will byte swap a file written on the host machine. To byte swap a file written on a foreign machine with opposite endianness, use the -x flag.

NOTE
       The error message
            uswap: data larger than file length
       often indicates that the file being read has the opposite byte "sex" to the platform uread is being run on. Try using the -x flag to see if this is the case.

SEE ALSO
       uread(1), ustrip(1)

AUTHOR
       S.E. Norris s.norris@auckland.ac.nz

                                                                                                                                                                                                       USWAP(1)
