UUCPSEND.CTL(5)                                                                                Administration                                                                               UUCPSEND.CTL(5)

NAME
       uucpsend.ctl - list of sites to feed via uucpsend

DESCRIPTION
       The file /etc/news/uucpsend.ctl specifies the default list of sites to be fed by uucpsend(8).  The program is able to read site information from other related configuration files as well.

       Comments  begin  with a hash mark (``#'') and continue through the end of the line.  Blank lines and comments are ignored.  All other lines should consist of six fields separated by a colon.  Each
       line looks like

              site:max_size:queue_size:header:compressor:args

       The first field site is the name of the site as specified in the newsfeeds(5) file.  This is also the name of the UUCP system connected to this site.

       The second field max_size describes the maximum size of all batches in kbytes that may be sent to this site.  If this amount of batches is reached, this site will not be batched with this run  and
       a reason will be logged into the logfile.  This test includs all UUCP jobs, not only the ones sent to rnews (performing ``du -s'').

       The third field queue_size specifies the maximum size in kbytes of one batch.  This argument is passed directly to batcher(8).

       The  fourth  field header defines the text that shall appear in the command header of every batch file.  `#! ' is prefixed each batch.  Normally you'll need cunbatch for compress, gunbatch or zun‐
       batch for gzip.  This header is important since there is not standard way to handle gzip'ed batches.  Using this and the next argument you're also able to use any compressor you like.  So you  re‐
       ceive a certain amount of flexibility by using uucpsend.  If you don't want to have any compression leave the field empty.

       The fifth field compressor names a program that reads from stdin and writes to stdout.  Normally it modifies the input stream by compressing it, such as compress(1) or gzip(1).

       The sixth field args consists of additional arguments that are passed directly to uux when sending the batch.

       One entry in the main configuration file is mandatory.  There must exist a line containing the default values for all these variables.  To achieve this the pseudo site /default/ is used.

       One default entry could look like this:

              /default/:2000:200:cunbatch:compress:-r -n

       This  reflects  a  minimal  setup.  The maximal size that may be used by the UUCP spool directory is 2MB.  Each batch will be max. 200 kBytes big.  The header of each batch will contain the string
       `cunbatch' and compress(1) is used to compress the batches. `-r -n' is passed to uux(1) which means no notification will be sent if uux was successful and uux won't  start  the  uucico(8)  program
       when spooling the file.

HISTORY
       Written by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org> for InterNetNews.  Most of the work is derived from nncpsend.ctl(5) by Landon Curt Noll <chongo@toad.com> for InterNetNews.

SEE ALSO
       batcher(8), newsfeeds(5), uucpsend(8), uux(1).

Infodrom                                                                                      21 November 2001                                                                              UUCPSEND.CTL(5)
