VACUUMDB(1)             PostgreSQL 10.17 Documentation             VACUUMDB(1)

NAME
       vacuumdb - garbage-collect and analyze a PostgreSQL database

SYNOPSIS
       vacuumdb [connection-option...] [option...]
                [ -t | --table table [( column [,...] )] ]...  [dbname]

       vacuumdb [connection-option...] [option...] -a | --all

DESCRIPTION
       vacuumdb is a utility for cleaning a PostgreSQL database.  vacuumdb
       will also generate internal statistics used by the PostgreSQL query
       optimizer.

       vacuumdb is a wrapper around the SQL command VACUUM(7). There is no
       effective difference between vacuuming and analyzing databases via this
       utility and via other methods for accessing the server.

OPTIONS
       vacuumdb accepts the following command-line arguments:

       -a
       --all
           Vacuum all databases.

       [-d] dbname
       [--dbname=]dbname
           Specifies the name of the database to be cleaned or analyzed, when
           -a/--all is not used. If this is not specified, the database name
           is read from the environment variable PGDATABASE. If that is not
           set, the user name specified for the connection is used. The dbname
           can be a connection string. If so, connection string parameters
           will override any conflicting command line options.

       -e
       --echo
           Echo the commands that vacuumdb generates and sends to the server.

       -f
       --full
           Perform “full” vacuuming.

       -F
       --freeze
           Aggressively “freeze” tuples.

       -j njobs
       --jobs=njobs
           Execute the vacuum or analyze commands in parallel by running njobs
           commands simultaneously. This option reduces the time of the
           processing but it also increases the load on the database server.

           vacuumdb will open njobs connections to the database, so make sure
           your max_connections setting is high enough to accommodate all
           connections.

           Note that using this mode together with the -f (FULL) option might
           cause deadlock failures if certain system catalogs are processed in
           parallel.

       -q
       --quiet
           Do not display progress messages.

       -t table [ (column [,...]) ]
       --table=table [ (column [,...]) ]
           Clean or analyze table only. Column names can be specified only in
           conjunction with the --analyze or --analyze-only options. Multiple
           tables can be vacuumed by writing multiple -t switches.

               Tip
               If you specify columns, you probably have to escape the
               parentheses from the shell. (See examples below.)

       -v
       --verbose
           Print detailed information during processing.

       -V
       --version
           Print the vacuumdb version and exit.

       -z
       --analyze
           Also calculate statistics for use by the optimizer.

       -Z
       --analyze-only
           Only calculate statistics for use by the optimizer (no vacuum).

       --analyze-in-stages
           Only calculate statistics for use by the optimizer (no vacuum),
           like --analyze-only. Run several (currently three) stages of
           analyze with different configuration settings, to produce usable
           statistics faster.

           This option is useful to analyze a database that was newly
           populated from a restored dump or by pg_upgrade. This option will
           try to create some statistics as fast as possible, to make the
           database usable, and then produce full statistics in the subsequent
           stages.

       -?
       --help
           Show help about vacuumdb command line arguments, and exit.

       vacuumdb also accepts the following command-line arguments for
       connection parameters:

       -h host
       --host=host
           Specifies the host name of the machine on which the server is
           running. If the value begins with a slash, it is used as the
           directory for the Unix domain socket.

       -p port
       --port=port
           Specifies the TCP port or local Unix domain socket file extension
           on which the server is listening for connections.

       -U username
       --username=username
           User name to connect as.

       -w
       --no-password
           Never issue a password prompt. If the server requires password
           authentication and a password is not available by other means such
           as a .pgpass file, the connection attempt will fail. This option
           can be useful in batch jobs and scripts where no user is present to
           enter a password.

       -W
       --password
           Force vacuumdb to prompt for a password before connecting to a
           database.

           This option is never essential, since vacuumdb will automatically
           prompt for a password if the server demands password
           authentication. However, vacuumdb will waste a connection attempt
           finding out that the server wants a password. In some cases it is
           worth typing -W to avoid the extra connection attempt.

       --maintenance-db=dbname
           Specifies the name of the database to connect to to discover which
           databases should be vacuumed, when -a/--all is used. If not
           specified, the postgres database will be used, or if that does not
           exist, template1 will be used. This can be a connection string. If
           so, connection string parameters will override any conflicting
           command line options. Also, connection string parameters other than
           the database name itself will be re-used when connecting to other
           databases.

ENVIRONMENT
       PGDATABASE
       PGHOST
       PGPORT
       PGUSER
           Default connection parameters

       This utility, like most other PostgreSQL utilities, also uses the
       environment variables supported by libpq (see Section 33.14).

DIAGNOSTICS
       In case of difficulty, see VACUUM(7) and psql(1) for discussions of
       potential problems and error messages. The database server must be
       running at the targeted host. Also, any default connection settings and
       environment variables used by the libpq front-end library will apply.

NOTES
       vacuumdb might need to connect several times to the PostgreSQL server,
       asking for a password each time. It is convenient to have a ~/.pgpass
       file in such cases. See Section 33.15 for more information.

EXAMPLES
       To clean the database test:

           $ vacuumdb test

       To clean and analyze for the optimizer a database named bigdb:

           $ vacuumdb --analyze bigdb

       To clean a single table foo in a database named xyzzy, and analyze a
       single column bar of the table for the optimizer:

           $ vacuumdb --analyze --verbose --table='foo(bar)' xyzzy

SEE ALSO
       VACUUM(7)

PostgreSQL 10.17                     2021                          VACUUMDB(1)
