VB(1)                 User Contributed Perl Documentation                VB(1)

NAME
       VB - Visual Builder for the Prima toolkit

DESCRIPTION
       Visual Builder is a RAD-style suite for designing forms under the Prima
       toolkit. It provides rich set of perl-composed widgets, whose can be
       inserted into a form by simple actions. The form can be stored in a
       file and loaded by either user program or a simple wrapper,
       "utils/prima-fmview.pl"; the form can be also stored as a valid perl
       program.

       A form file typically has .fm extension, an can be loaded by using
       Prima::VB::VBLoader module. The following example is the only content
       of "prima-fmview.pl":

               use Prima qw(Application VB::VBLoader);
               my $ret = Prima::VBLoad( $ARGV[0] );
               die "$@\n" unless $ret;
               $ret-> execute;

       and is usually sufficient for executing a form file.

Help
       The builder provides three main windows, that are used for designing.
       These are called main panel, object inspector and form window. When the
       builder is started, the form window is empty.

       The main panel consists of the menu bar, speed buttons and the widget
       buttons. If the user presses a widget button, and then clicks the mouse
       on the form window, the designated widget is inserted into the form and
       becomes a child of the form window.  If the click was made on a visible
       widget in the form window, the newly inserted widget becomes a children
       of that widget. After the widget is inserted, its properties are
       accessible via the object inspector window.

       The menu bar contains the following commands:

       File
           New Closes the current form and opens a new, empty form.  If the
               old form was not saved, the user is asked if the changes made
               have to be saved.

               This command is an alias to a 'new file' icon on the panel.

           Open
               Invokes a file open dialog, so a .fm form file can be opened.
               After the successful file load, all form widgets are visible
               and available for editing.

               This command is an alias to an 'open folder' icon on the panel.

           Save
               Stores the form into a file. The user here can select a type of
               the file to be saved. If the form is saved as .fm form file,
               then it can be re-loaded either in the builder or in the user
               program ( see Prima::VB::VBLoader for details ).  If the form
               is saved as .pl program, then it can not be loaded; instead,
               the program can be run immediately without the builder or any
               supplementary code.

               Once the user assigned a name and a type for the form, it is
               never asked when selecting this command.

               This command is an alias to a 'save on disk' icon on the panel.

           Save as
               Same as Save, except that a new name or type of file are asked
               every time the command is invoked.

           Close
               Closes the form and removes the form window. If the form window
               was changed, the user is asked if the changes made have to be
               saved.

       Edit
           Copy
               Copies the selected widgets into the clipboard, so they can be
               inserted later by using Paste command.  The form window can not
               be copied.

           Paste
               Reads the information, put by the builder Copy command into the
               clipboard, and inserts the widgets into the form window. The
               child-parent relation is kept by names of the widgets; if the
               widget with the name of the parent of the clipboard-read
               widgets is not found, the widgets are inserted into the form
               window.  The form window is not affected by this command.

           Delete
               Deletes the selected widgets.  The form window can not be
               deleted.

           Select all
               Selects all of the widgets, inserted in the form window, except
               the form window itself.

           Duplicate
               Duplicates the selected widgets.  The form window is not
               affected by this command.

           Align
               This menu item contains z-ordering actions, that are performed
               on selected widgets.  These are:

               Bring to front Send to back Step forward Step backward Restore
               order

       Change class
           Changes the class of an inserted widget. This is an advanced
           option, and can lead to confusions or errors, if the default widget
           class and the supplied class differ too much. It is used when the
           widget that has to be inserted is not present in the builder
           installation. Also, it is called implicitly when a loaded form does
           not contain a valid widget class; in such case Prima::Widget class
           is assigned.

       Creation order
           Opens the dialog, that manages the creation order of the widgets.
           It is not that important for the widget child-parent relation,
           since the builder tracks these, and does not allow a child to be
           created before its parent. However, the explicit order might be
           helpful in a case, when, for example, "tabOrder" property is left
           to its default value, so it is assigned according to the order of
           widget creation.

       Toggle lock
           Changes the lock status for selected widgets. The lock, if set,
           prevents a widget from being selected by mouse, to avoid occasional
           positional changes.  This is useful when a widget is used as owner
           for many sub-widgets.

           Ctrl+mouse click locks and unlocks a widget.

       View
           Object inspector
               Brings the object inspector window, if it was hidden or closed.

           Add widgets
               Opens a file dialog, where the additional VB modules can be
               located.  The modules are used for providing custom widgets and
               properties for the builder. As an example, the
               Prima/VB/examples/Widgety.pm module is provided with the
               builder and the toolkit. Look inside this file for the
               implementation details.

           Reset guidelines
               Reset the guidelines on the form window into a center position.

           Snap to guidelines
               Specifies if the moving and resizing widget actions must treat
               the form window guidelines as snapping areas.

           Snap to grid
               Specifies if the moving and resizing widget actions must use
               the form window grid granularity instead of the pixel
               granularity.

           Run This command hides the form and object inspector windows and
               'executes' the form, as if it would be run by
               "prima-fmview.pl".  The execution session ends either by
               closing the form window or by calling Break command.

               This command is an alias to a 'run' icon on the panel.

           Break
               Explicitly terminates the execution session, initiated by Run
               command.

       Help
           About
               Displays the information about the visual builder.

           Help
               Displays the information about the usage of the visual builder.

           Widget property
               Invokes a help viewer on Prima::Widget manpage and tries to
               open a topic, corresponding to the current selection of the
               object inspector property or event list. While this manpage
               covers far not all ( but still many ) properties and events, it
               is still a little bit more convenient than nothing.

   Form window
       The form widget is a common parent for all widgets, created by the
       builder. The form window provides the following basic navigation
       functionality.

       Guidelines
           The form window contains two guidelines, the horizontal and the
           vertical, drawn as blue dashed lines. Dragging with the mouse can
           move these lines.  If menu option "Snap to guidelines" is on, the
           widgets moving and sizing operations treat the guidelines as the
           snapping areas.

       Selection
           A widget can be selected by clicking with the mouse on it. There
           can be more than one selected widget at a time, or none at all.  To
           explicitly select a widget in addition to the already selected
           ones, hold the "shift" key while clicking on a widget. This
           combination also deselects the widget. To select all widgets on the
           form window, call "Select all" command from the menu. To prevent
           widgets from being occasionally selected, lock them with
           "Edit/Toggle lock" command or Ctrl+mouse click.

       Moving
           Dragging the mouse can move the selected widgets. The widgets can
           be snapped to the grid or the guidelines during the move. If one of
           the moving widgets is selected in the object inspector window, the
           coordinate changes are reflected in the "origin" property.

           If the "Tab" key is pressed during the move, the mouse pointer is
           changed between three states, each reflecting the currently
           accessible coordinates for dragging. The default accessible
           coordinates are both the horizontal and the vertical; other two are
           the horizontal only and the vertical only.

       Sizing
           The sizeable widgets can be dynamically resized. Regardless to the
           amount of the selected widgets, only one widget at a time can be
           resized.  If the resized widget is selected in the object inspector
           window, the size changes are reflected in the "size" property.

       Context menus
           The right-click ( or the other system-defined pop-up menu
           invocation command) provides the menu, identical to the main
           panel's Edit submenu.

           The alternative context menus can be provided with some widgets (
           for example, "TabbedNotebook" ), and are accessible with "control +
           right click" combination.

   Object inspector window
       The inspector window reflects the events and properties of a widget.
       To explicitly select a widget, it must be either clicked by the mouse
       on the form window, or selected in the widget combo-box. Depending on
       whether the properties or the events are selected, the left panel of
       the inspector provides the properties or events list, and the right
       panel - a value of the currently selected property or event. To toggle
       between the properties and the events, use the button below the list.

       The adjustable properties of a widget include an incomplete set of the
       properties, returned by the class method "profile_default" ( the
       detailed explanation see in Prima::Object). Among these are such basic
       properties as "origin", "size", "name", "color", "font", "visible",
       "enabled", "owner" and many others.  All the widgets share some common
       denominator, but almost all provide their own intrinsic properties.
       Each property can be selected by the right-pane hosted property
       selector; in such case, the name of a property is highlighted in the
       list - that means, that the property is initialized. To remove a
       property from the initialization list, double-click on it, so it is
       grayed again. Some very basic properties as "name" can not be
       deselected. This is because the builder keeps a name-keyed list;
       another consequence of this fact is that no widgets of same name can
       exist simultaneously within the builder.

       The events, much like the properties, are accessible for direct change.
       All the events provide a small editor, so the custom code can be
       supplied.  This code is executed when the form is run or loaded via
       "Prima::VB::VBLoader" interface.

       The full explanation of properties and events is not provided here. It
       is not even the goal of this document, because the builder can work
       with the widgets irrespective of their property or event capabilities;
       this information is extracted by native toolkit functionality. To read
       on what each property or event means, use the documentation on the
       class of interest; Prima::Widget is a good start because it encompasses
       the ground "Prima::Widget" functionality.  The other widgets are (
       hopefully ) documented in their modules, for example,
       "Prima::ScrollBar" documentation can be found in Prima::ScrollBar.

SEE ALSO
       Prima, Prima::VB::VBLoader

AUTHOR
       Dmitry Karasik, <dmitry@karasik.eu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       This program is distributed under the BSD License.

perl v5.26.3                      2020-11-02                             VB(1)
