VDOFORMAT(8)                System Manager's Manual               VDOFORMAT(8)

NAME
       vdoformat - format a VDO device

SYNOPSIS
       vdoformat [options...]  filename

DESCRIPTION
       vdoformat  formats  the file named by filename as a VDO device. This is
       analogous to low-level device formatting.  The device will not be  for‐
       matted if it already contains a VDO, unless the --force flag is used.

       vdoformat can also modify some of the formatting parameters.

OPTIONS
       --format
              Format  the block device, even if there is already a VDO format‐
              ted thereupon.

       --help Print this help message and exit.

       --logical-size=size
              Set the logical (provisioned) size of the VDO device to size.  A
              size  suffix  of  K  for kilobytes, M for megabytes, G for giga‐
              bytes, T for terabytes, or P  for  petabytes  is  optional.  The
              default unit is megabytes.

       --slab-bits=bits
              Set  the free space allocator's slab size to 2^bits 4 KB blocks.
              bits must be a value between 4 and 23 (inclusive), corresponding
              to a slab size between 128 KB and 32 GB. The default value is 19
              which results in a slab size of 2 GB. This allocator manages the
              space VDO uses to store user data.

              The maximum number of slabs in the system is 8192, so this value
              determines the maximum physical size of a VDO volume.  One  slab
              is  the  minimum  amount  by  which  a  VDO volume can be grown.
              Smaller slabs also increase the potential for parallelism if the
              device  has  multiple  physical  threads.  Therefore, this value
              should be set as small as possible, given the  eventual  maximal
              size of the volume.

       --uds-checkpoint-frequency=frequency
              Specify the frequency of checkpoints. The default is never.

       --uds-memory-size=gigabytes
              Specify  the  amount  of  memory, in gigabytes, to devote to the
              index. Accepted options are .25, .5, .75, and all positive inte‐
              gers.

       --uds-sparse
              Specify whether or not to use a sparse index.

       --verbose
              Describe what is being formatted and with what parameters.

       --version
              Show the version of vdoformat.

SEE ALSO
       vdo(8).

Red Hat                           2017-09-12                      VDOFORMAT(8)
