vdr(1)                                                               Video Disk Recorder                                                               vdr(1)

NAME
       vdr - the Video Disk Recorder

SYNOPSIS
       vdr [options]

DESCRIPTION
       vdr  implements a complete digital Set-Top Box and Video Recorder.  It can work with signals received from satellites (DVB-S) as well as cable (DVB-C)
       and terrestrial (DVB-T) signals.

       At least one DVB card is required to run vdr. With it you can watch live TV while recording one or more other broadcasts from  the  same  transponder.
       It  is  also  possible  to  start watching a recorded programme before the live broadcast has ended (time shifting). In order to record from different
       transponders simultaneously two or more DVB cards are necessary.  By default vdr can support up to eight DVB cards.  The primary  DVB  card  (the  one
       your  TV  set  is connected to) can either be a "full featured" card, which means it contains an MPEG decoder and provides audio and video signal out‐
       puts, or you can use some third party plugin that implements software decoding of the MPEG data and displays it via the system's graphics adapter.

       vdr uses an On Screen Display (OSD) to display its menus.  It can be controlled by the PC keyboard, the "Linux Infrared Remote Control" (LIRC), or any
       other means of remote control, implemented by a third party plugin.

       Remote access is possible via the "Simple Video Disk Recorder Protocol" (SVDRP), which can be accessed on port 6419, for instance by telnet.

OPTIONS
       -a cmd, --audio=cmd
              Send Dolby Digital audio to stdin of command cmd.

       --cachedir=dir
              Save cache files in dir (default is to save them in the video directory).

       --chartab=character_table
              Set the character table to use for strings in the DVB data stream that don't begin with a character table indicator, but don't use the standard
              default character table (for instance ISO-8859-9).

       -c dir, --config=dir
              Read config files from directory dir (default is to read them from the video directory).

       -d, --daemon
              Run in daemon mode (implies --no-kbd).

       -D num, --device=num
              Use only the given DVB device (num = 0, 1, 2...).  There may be several -D options (by default all DVB devices will be used).  If -D- is given,
              no DVB devices will be used at all, independent of any other -D options.

       --dirnames=path[,name[,enc]]
              Set the maximum directory path length to path (default is the maximum value allowed on the system). If name is also given, it defines the maxi‐
              mum directory name length (default is the maximum value allowed on the system).  The optional enc can be 0 or 1, and controls  whether  special
              characters  in  directory  names are encoded as hex values (default: 0).  If path or name are left empty (as in ",,1" to only set enc), the de‐
              faults apply.  The length of the video directory name and that of the actual recording directory is subtracted from path, to make sure the  di‐
              rectory path will never become too long.

       --edit=rec
              Edit  the  given  recording.   rec  must be the full path name of an existing recording.  The program will return immediately after editing the
              recording.

       -E file, --epgfile=file
              Write the EPG data into the given file (default is epg.data in the cache directory).  Use -E- to disable this.  If file  is  a  directory,  the
              file epg.data will be created in that directory.

       --filesize=size
              Limit  video  files  to  size bytes (default is 2000M).  This option is only useful in conjunction with --edit, and must precede that option to
              have an effect.  size is an integer number and may be followed by one of the letters K, M, G or T to abbreviate Kilo-,  Mega-,  Giga-  or  Ter‐
              abyte, respectively.  The given value is silently limited to the program's internal minimum and maximum values.

       --genindex=rec
              Generate the index file for the given recording.  rec must be the full path name of an existing recording.  The recording must be in TS format.
              If the recording already has an index file, it will be deleted before creating the new one.  The program will return immediately after generat‐
              ing  the  index.  Note that using this option while another instance of VDR is currently replaying the given recording, or if the recording has
              not been finished yet, may lead to unexpected results.

       -g, --grab=dir
              Write images from the SVDRP command GRAB into the given directory dir. dir must be the full path name of an  existing  directory,  without  any
              "..", double '/' or symlinks. By default, or if -g- is given, grabbing images to disk is disabled.

       -h, --help
              Print a help message and exit.

       -i instance, --instance=instance
              Use  instance  as  the  id of this VDR instance (default is 0).  In an environment where several instances of VDR use the same video directory,
              this parameter can be set to a positive integer value that's unique for each instance, so that they won't interfere with  each  other  in  case
              they record exactly the same broadcast.  The number given here will be part of the directory name in which the recordings will be stored.

       -l level, --log=level
              Set  logging  to level.  0 = no logging, 1 = errors only, 2 = errors and info, 3 = errors, info and debug.  The default logging level is 3.  If
              logging should be done to LOG_LOCALn instead of LOG_USER, add '.n' to LEVEL, as in 3.7 (n=0..7).

       -L dir, --lib=dir
              Search for plugins in directory dir (default is ./PLUGINS/lib).  There can be several -L options with different dir values.  Each of them  will
              apply to the -P options following it.

       --lirc[=path]
              Use a LIRC remote control device.  If path is omitted, vdr uses /var/run/lirc/lircd.

       --localedir=dir
              Search for locale files in dir (default is ./locale).

       -m, --mute
              Mute audio of the primary DVB device at startup.

       --no-kbd
              Don't use the keyboard as an input device.

       -p port, --port=port
              Use  port  for SVDRP. A value of 0 turns off SVDRP.  The default SVDRP port is 6419.  You need to edit the file svdrphosts.conf in order to en‐
              able access to the SVDRP port from hosts other than the localhosts.  Note that this option only changes the TCP port used for  SVDRP  commands.
              The UDP port for discovering peer VDRs in the same network is always set to 6419 and can't be changed.

       -P options, --plugin=options
              Load  a  plugin,  defined by the given options.  The first word in options must be the name of an existing vdr plugin, optionally followed by a
              blank separated list of command line options for that plugin. If options contains any blanks, you need to enclose it in quotes, like for  exam‐
              ple

              vdr -P "abc -a -b xyz"

              which  would load a plugin named abc, giving it the command line options -a -b xyz. If you want to load all available plugins (without any par‐
              ticular options) you can use

              vdr -P "*"

              (note the quotes around the asterisk to prevent wildcard expansion).

       -r cmd, --record=cmd
              Call cmd before and after a recording. See the file INSTALL for more information.

       --resdir=dir
              Read resource files from dir (default is to read them from the config directory).

       --showargs[=dir]
              Read command line arguments from dir (default is /etc/vdr/conf.d), display them to the console and exit.

       -s cmd, --shutdown=cmd
              Call cmd to shutdown the computer. See the file INSTALL for more information.

       --split
              Split edited files at the editing marks.  This option is only useful in conjunction with --edit, and must precede that option to  have  an  ef‐
              fect.

       -t tty, --terminal=tty
              Set the controlling terminal.

       -u user, --user=user
              Run  as  user  user  in  case  vdr  was  started  as user 'root'.  Starting vdr as 'root' is necessary if the system time shall be set from the
              transponder data, but for security reasons vdr can switch to a lesser privileged user id during normal operation. user can be a user name or  a
              numerical id.

       --updindex=rec
              Update  the  index file for the given recording.  rec must be the full path name of an existing recording.  The recording must be in TS format.
              If the recording already has an index file, it will be checked whether it is complete, and will be updated if it isn't. If there  is  no  index
              file  yet,  a  new one will be generated.  The program will return immediately after updating the index.  Note that using this option while an‐
              other instance of VDR is currently replaying the given recording, or if the recording has not been finished yet, may  lead  to  unexpected  re‐
              sults.

       --userdump
              Allow coredumps if -u is given (only for debugging).

       --vfat For backwards compatibility (same as --dirnames= 250,40,1).

       -v dir, --video=dir
              Use dir as video directory.  The default is /video.

       -V, --version
              Print version information and exit.

       -w sec, --watchdog=sec
              Activate the watchdog timer with a timeout of sec seconds.  A value of 0 (default) disables the watchdog.

       If  started  without any options, vdr tries to read command line options from files named '*.conf' in the directory /etc/vdr/conf.d. Files are read in
       alphabetical order. See vdr(5) for details.

SIGNALS
       SIGINT, SIGTERM
              Program exits with status 0.

       SIGHUP Program exits with status 1. This can be used to force a reload, for example if an update has been installed.

EXIT STATUS
       0      Successful program execution.

       1      An error has been detected which requires the DVB driver and vdr to be reloaded.

       2      An non-recoverable error has been detected, vdr has given up.

FILES
       channels.conf
              Channel configuration.

       timers.conf
              Timer configuration.

       setup.conf
              User definable setup.

       commands.conf
              User definable commands (executed from the Commands menu).

       svdrphosts.conf
              SVDRP host configuration, defining which hosts or networks are given access to the SVDRP port.

       marks  Contains the editing marks defined for a recording.

       info   Contains a description of the recording.

       resume Contains the index into the recording where the last replay session left off.

       index  Contains the file number, offset and type of each frame of the recording.

       remote.conf
              Contains the key assignments for the remote control.

       keymacros.conf
              Contains user defined remote control key macros.

       00001.ts ... 65535.ts
              The actual data files of a recording.

       epg.data
              Contains all current EPG data. Can be used for external processing and will also be read at program startup to have the full EPG data available
              immediately.

       donerecs.data
              Contains the names of recordings that have been done by pattern timers with '@' as the first character of the pattern. File names are  appended
              to this file after a recording has finished, and the entire file is read upon startup of VDR.

       .update
              If  this  file is present in the video directory, its last modification time will be used to trigger an update of the list of recordings in the
              "Recordings" menu.

SEE ALSO
       vdr(5),svdrpsend(1)

AUTHOR
       Written by Klaus Schmidinger, with contributions from many others.  See the file CONTRIBUTORS in the vdr source distribution.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <vdr-bugs@tvdr.de>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2021 Klaus Schmidinger.

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

2.6                                                                      27 Dec 2021                                                                   vdr(1)
