VF1(1)                                                              General Commands Manual                                                            VF1(1)

NAME
       vf1 — command line gopher client

SYNOPSIS
       vf1 [-h] [--bookmarks] [--debug] [--tls] [url ...]

DESCRIPTION
       vf1 is an interactive command line gopher client.  It presents a prompt to the user, who can then enter commands to perform actions.

       Only a small number of commands are needed to get around, and most of them can be abbreviated to one or two chars, so with practice very quick naviga‐
       tion of gopherspace is possible.  See the “COMMANDS” section for more details.

       The options are as follows:

       -h, --help
               Display a short help message and exit.

       --bookmarks
               Immediately navigate to bookmarks upon starting.

       --debug
               Start with debug mode enabled.

       --tls   Start in TLS mode.  See the “TLS MODE” section for more details.

       url ...
               The Gopher URL(s) to open.  If more than one URL is provided, these are queued in a tour.

COMMANDS
       All vf1 commands are listed below.  Most commands operate on an implicit operand from the very limited internal state which vf1 maintains.

       This  state  includes  the  “lookup,”  which is a list of items (locations) in Gopherspace with numeric indices attached.  Indices begin from 1.  Upon
       startup, the lookup is empty.  Whenever a gopher menu is visited, the contents of that menu become the contents of the lookup, replacing any  previous
       contents.  Some commands, such as search, history, or links overwrite the lookup with their results.  At any time, the lookup can be reset to the con‐
       tents of the most recently visited gopher menu with the ls command.

       In  addition  to the lookup, vf1 is aware of exactly one active item (the item the user is currently viewing).  Usually, the active item is one of the
       items in the lookup, and if so vf1 knows its index.

       Most vf1 commands operate on either the lookup, or the active item.

       In addition to the commands listed below, users can enter a numeric index.  vf1 will then navigate to the corresponding item in the lookup,  and  that
       item will become the active item.

       a, add  Add the URL of the current item to the bookmarks menu.

       b, back
               Go back to the previous item in the history.

       bb, blackbox
               Display contents of flight recorder, showing statistics for the current gopher browsing session.

       bm, book, bookmarks
               Show the current bookmarks menu.

       cat     Process the text of the current item with the cat(1) command.

       exit    Exit VF-1.  Go forward to the next item in the history.

       f, fold
               Process the text of the current item with the fold(1) command, wrapping lines at 70 characters.

       fo, forward
               Go forward to the next item in the history.

       g, go url | mark
               Visit a gopher URL or marked item, making it the active item.

       handler [mimetype program]
               List or set handlers for different MIME types.  See “HANDLERS” section below for more details.

       help [command]
               Display help information for a command, or list all commands with help information available.

       h, hist, history
               Display the history.

       l, less
               Process the text of the current item with the less(1) command.

       li, links
               Extract URLs from the text of the current item, and populate the lookup with them.

       ls [-l]
               Set  the lookup to the contents of the most recently visited gopher menu and then list the lookup's contents.  If invoked as ls -l the listing
               will include the URL of each menu item.

       m, mark [mark]
               Mark the current item with a single letter.  This letter can then be passed to the go command to return to the current item later.  Lists  all
               defined marks when no argument is given.

       n, next
               Go to the item which is after the current item in the lookup.

       p, prev, previous
               Go to the item which is before the current item in the lookup.

       q, quit
               Exit VF-1.

       r, reload
               Reload the current item.

       root    Visit the root gopher item of the server hosting the current item.

       s, save [filename]
               Save an item to the filesystem.  save saves the current item with an automagic filename derived from its gopher selector.  save filename saves
               the  current item with the specified filename.  save n saves the item at lookup index n with an automagic filename.  save n filename saves the
               item at lookup index n with the specified filename.

       /, se, search pattern
               Search the lookup (case insensitive).

       set [option value]
               Change the value of a setting, or view its current value.  Shows all current value options if no arguments are given.  See the “SETTINGS” sec‐
               tion below for more details.

       tls     Toggle TLS mode on or off.  See the “TLS MODE” section for more details.

       t, tour [item ...]
               Visit the next item in, or add an item to, the “tour” - a FIFO queue of gopher items.  If no arguments are provided, the next item in the tour
               is visited.  Items from the lookup can be added with a list of indices like tour 1 2 3 4, or consecutive ranges like tour 1-4.  All  items  in
               the  lookup  can be added with tour *.  Items not in the lookup can be added by their URL with tour url.  The current tour queue can be listed
               with tour ls and scrubbed with tour clear.

       up, u   Go up one directory in the path.

       url     Show the URL of the current item.

       v, veronica [query]
               Submit a search query to the Veronica 2 search engine.

HANDLERS
       vf1 uses external programs as “handlers” to present different gopherspace content to the user.  Even when visiting a plain text file with item type 0,
       vf1 uses (by default) the unix command cat(1) to display that file on the screen, rather than using a Python print() call.  Users  have  full  control
       over which external programs are used for different content, so the user experience can be customised to taste.

       Handlers are assigned on the basis of MIME types.  The gopher protocol has no concept of MIME type, so vf1 assigns each item a MIME type itself in the
       manner described in the section “MIME type assignment” below.

       A list of the current handler assignments can be viewed at any time by running the handler command.  The default handlers that ship with vf1 are:

             MIME type          handler
             application/pdf:   xpdf %s
             audio/mpeg:        mpg123 %s
             audio/ogg:         ogg123 %s
             image/*:           feh %s
             text/*:            Ta cat %s
             text/html:         lynx -dump -force_html %s

       The  handler  command can be used to change these handlers, or set handlers for new MIME types.  For example, users who prefer w3m(1) over lynx(1) for
       handling HTML content could run:

             VF-1> handler text/html w3m -dump %s

       The specified handler will be run as a shell command, with the temporary file containing the content of the current gopher item replacing  any  occur‐
       rences of %s.  Pipe syntax can be used to pass gopher content through multiple text filters to achieve the desired appearance.

       The  ‘*’ wildcard can be used when specifying handler MIME types, e.g.  ‘image/*’ allows using a single program to handle any kind of image.  Handlers
       without wildcards take precedence over handlers with wildcards.  In other words, if one handler is specified for ‘image/jpeg’ and a different  handler
       for ‘image/*’, the ‘image/jpeg’ handler will be used for JPEGs and the ‘image/*’ handler will be used for all other images.

   MIME type assignment
       vf1 assigns MIME types to gopher items as follows:

       •   Item types 0 and 1 are assigned MIME type ‘text/plain’

       •   Item type h is assigned MIME type ‘text/html’

       •   Item type g is assigned MIME type ‘image/gif’

       For  all other item types, vf1 attempts to guess a MIME type from the file extension of the last component of the selector, using the ‘mimetypes’ mod‐
       ule from the Python standard library.  This usually results in a reliable identification assuming the file has an extension and the author of the  go‐
       pher content is not being deliberately deceptive.

       If  the selector has no file extension, or the extension is not recognised by the ‘itemtypes’ module, vf1 will use the unix program file(1) to attempt
       to guess a MIME type by actually inspecting the content of the file.

       In accordance with the idea that gopher item types, which are a standard part of the protocol, should take precedence over any other attempt at infer‐
       ring MIME type, which is not a standard part of the protocol, if an item in gopherspace is listed with itemtype ‘I’ or ‘s’ and one of the above  meth‐
       ods  returns  a  MIME type which does not begin with ‘image/’ or ‘sound/’ respectively, vf1 will default to ‘image/jpeg’ or ‘audio/mpeg’ respectively.
       This should only happen in highly unusual circumstances and suggests a poorly or maliciously configured gopher server.

TEXT ENCODING
       vf1 attempts to decode the content received for any text-based item types (e.g. 0, 1, 7, h) as UTF-8.  Most content in gopherspace  is  ASCII-encoded,
       and  since  UTF-8  is backward compatible with ASCII, this will generally “just work”.  If the received content cannot be decoded as UTF-8, one of two
       possible things will happen:

       If the ‘chardet’ Python module is installed, vf1 will use it to attempt to automatically detect the encoding used and decode the  text  appropriately.
       Note that pip etc. will not install ‘chardet’ automatically when installing vf1, as vf1 does not formally depend on ‘chardet’.  It uses it opportunis‐
       tically, so that it can still be easily installed and used on systems where ‘chardet’ is not or cannot be installed.

       If  ‘chardet’  is not installed, or if ‘chardet’ cannot identify an encoding with confidence exceeding 0.5, vf1 will attempt to fall back to a single,
       user-specified alternative encoding.  This encoding can be set as follows:

             VF-1> set encoding koi8-r

       The default fall back encoding is iso-8559-1, which is used by the popular gopher site floodgap.com.  Users who routinely visit gopher  sites  encoded
       with some other encoding may consider using an RC file (see below) to automatically set the alternative encoding at start up.

TLS MODE
       vf1 supports TLS connections.  This is an experimental feature, and TLS connections are not supported by the majority of gopher servers.  As such, TLS
       support must be explicitly activatd by using the command to enable TLS mode (aka "Battloid mode").  When TLS mode is enabled, all gopher requests will
       be made over TLS, so most requests will fail when a connection to the server cannot be established.  TLS mode must be explicitly deactivated to resume
       browsing unencrypted gopherspace.

SETTINGS
       The following miscellaneous settings can be adjusted with the command.

       color_menus
               If set to true, items in gopher menus will be color coded according to item type, using ANSI escape codes.  Default value is false.

       debug   If set to true, detailed debugging information will be printed to stdout when commands are run.  Default value is false.

       encoding
               Fallback  text  encoding to use if received gopher content cannot be decoded as UTF-8.  See the “TEXT ENCODING” section for more details.  De‐
               fault value is iso-8859-1.

       ipv6    If set to true, vf1 will preferentially attempt to connect to gopher servers via IPv6 if a AAAA DNS record is found.  If the  IPv6  connection
               fails, vf1 will automatically retry with IPv4.  Default value is true.

       timeout
               Time to wait, in seconds, when trying to connect to a gopher server before giving up.  Default value is 10.

FILES
       ~/.vf1-bookmarks.txt  This file stores gopher bookmarks, in a simple gophermap format (without hosts or ports).  Use add to add the current URL to the
                             bookmark list.
       ~/.config/vf1/vf1rc
       ~/.config/.vf1rc
       ~/.vf1rc              Upon  startup, vf1 will search for a file with one of these names, a so-called RC file (see below).The names are listed above in
                             order of preference and vf1 will stop after the first one it finds, e.g. if both ~/.config/vf1/vf1rc and a ~/.vf1rc  exist  then
                             then ~/.vf1rc will be ignored.

   RC FILE
       If  an  RC  file  is found, each line of the file will be executed as a vf1 command before the prompt is displayed.This allows users to script certain
       commands that should be run every time vf1 is started.  This permits, for example:

       •   Permanently configuring item type handlers by putting handler commands in the RC file.

       •   Permanently configuring the preferred non-UTF-8 encoding, or other options, by putting set commands in the RC file.

       •   Setting a “home page” by putting a go command in the RC file.

       •   Starting a tour through a list of favourite sites by putting tour commands in the RC file.

EXAMPLES
       See the vf1-turorial(7) for a comprehensive introduction to the work flow of vf1

       Start vf1:

             vf1

       Start vf1 and immediately open to bookmark list:

             vf1 --bookmarks

       Visit the zaibatsu:

             vf1 zaibatsu.circumlunar.space

SEE ALSO
       vf1-tutorial(7)

       •   mimetypes: https://docs.python.org/3.5/library/mimetypes.html

       •   chardet: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/chardet

STANDARDS
       vf1 is a gopher client conforming to RFC 1436 ⟨https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1436⟩.

TRIVIA
       vf1 is named after the VF-1 Valkyrie aircraft from the classic '80s anime series Super Dimension Fortress Macross, in recognition of the role that the
       SDF Public Access Unix system ⟨gopher://sdf.org⟩, named after the same series, has played in keeping Gopherspace alive in the 21st century.

AUTHORS
       Solderpunk ⟨solderpunk@sdf.org⟩
       Alex Schroeder ⟨alex@gnu.org⟩
       Joseph Lyman ⟨tfurrows@sdf.org⟩
       Adam Mayer ⟨https://github.com/phooky⟩
       Paco Esteban ⟨paco@onna.be⟩

All Operating                                                          August 31, 2019                                                                 VF1(1)
