VILEGET(1)                                                   User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                   VILEGET(1)

NAME
       vileget - Pass file edit requests to a Vile editor running Vileserv.

SYNOPSIS
       vileget [-n] [-d] [-w] [-s socket-path] [-c command] [-C command] [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Vileget can be used to load files into an already running instance of Vile or XVile.  The editor should have already loaded and started the Vileserv
       perl module.  (See the Vileserv documentation for more detail.)

       By default, if vileget cannot connect to a running instance of the editor it tries to start a new one.  This will only work correctly if you have
       configured Vile to start Vileserv automatically.  (Vileget will try to find an XVile binary first, then look for a Vile binary.)

       Vileget looks for the Vileserv socket in the user's home directory ($HOME/.vilesock) by default.  This can be changed by setting the VILESOCK
       environment variable, or by using the -s option.

       If vileget is handed a directory name, it tries to get the target Vile to load the directory.pm module and popup the appropriate directory listing.
       This only works for the first directory mentioned on the command line, and it only works if the target Vile is configured to accept remote commands
       (see the -c/-C options).

COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS
       -d   With  this  option,  vileget  will change the current working directory of the running Vile to be the directory in which vileget is being run, in
            addition to loading any requested files.

       -n   This tells vileget NOT to try starting a new instance of Vile if necessary.  If vileget cannot connect to a running Vile, it will just die with a
            connection error instead.

       -w   Vileget waits for given file(s) to be written by Vile before exiting.

       -s socket-path
            Tells vileget to use the socket given by socket-path.  This overrides the default and the environment variable VILESOCK.

       -c command
       -C command
            The -c and -C options can be used to pass arbitrary Vile commands to a running instance of Vile.  These can be used at the same  time  that  file
            edits are being requested, or without giving any files at all.  When file arguments are used, the -c option can be used to execute a Vile command
            before  the  requested  files  are  loaded.   The  -C  option is used to execute a Vile command after the requested files are loaded.  If no file
            arguments are given, then -c and -C are basically the same, except that -c has precedence.  These options are non-repeatable,  so  you  can  only
            execute two Vile commands per invocation of vileget.  Of course, there are always procedures...

            You can have a lot of mindless fun with these two options.  For example, you can popup and close the buffer list by repeatedly executing:

               vileget -c '*'

            As a nod towards security, command execution is disabled by default in Vileserv.  To enable it, you can use

               setv %vileserv-accept-commands true

            in your .vilerc file.  Note that running something like

               vileget -c 'setv %vileserv-accept-commands false'

            can be used to disable remote commands dynamically.  Naturally, this is considered to be both a security violation *and* a feature...

            Passing  arbitrary  commands  to  Vile may well produce arbitrary results.  The author assumes no liability for edit sessions that have collapsed
            into singularities, or, as a matter of fact, for anything else.

SEE ALSO
       vileserv(3), vile(1)

AUTHOR
       J. Chris Coppick, 1998 (last updated: July 26, 2000)

perl v5.40.1                                                              2026-01-29                                                               VILEGET(1)
