
vimix(1)                                                                                       vimix manpage                                                                                       vimix(1)

NAME
       vimix - Video live mixer

       vimix [OPTIONS] [FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       vimix performs graphical mixing and blending of several movie clips and computer generated graphics, with image processing effects in real-time.

       Its intuitive and hands-on user interface gives direct control on image opacity and shape for producing live graphics during concerts or VJ-ing sessions.

       The output image is typically projected full-screen on an external monitor or a projector, but can be streamed live (SRT) or recorded.

OPTIONS
       -H, --help
              Display usage information for vimix and exit.

       -V, --version
              Output the version number of vimix and exit.

       -F, --fontsizeN
              Set interface font size to specified value N.

       -S, --settingssettingsfile.xml
              Run using the given settings file.

       -L, --headless
              Run without graphical user interface (only if output windows are configured).

       -C, --clean
              Clean the user stored preferences of vimix and exit.

       -T, --test
              Perform a minimal rendering test and exit.

FILE
       Launches vimix and tries to open the provided session file (.mix extension).

SEE ALSO
   Regular Manual Pages
       gst-launch-1.0(1), gst-inspect-1.0(1)

   Documentation
       A user manual and tutorials are available online (https://github.com/brunoherbelin/vimix/wiki).

BUGS
   Reporting bugs
       Report bugs and issues on github (https://github.com/brunoherbelin/vimix/issues).

COPYRIGHT
       GPL3+ license

       Copyright (c) 2023 Bruno Herbelin

       This document is part of the vimix software.

0.8.0                                                                                            March 2023                                                                                        vimix(1)
