VIPSTHUMBNAIL(1)                                                                            General Commands Manual                                                                            VIPSTHUMBNAIL(1)

NAME
       vipsthumbnail - make thumbnails of image files

SYNOPSIS
       vipsthumbnail [flags] imagefile1 imagefile2 ...

DESCRIPTION
       vipsthumbnail(1)  processes  each  imagefile  in turn, shrinking each image to fit within a 128 by 128 pixel square.  The shrunk image is written to a new file named tn_imagefile.jpg.  This program is
       typically faster and uses less memory than other image thumbnail programs.

       For example:

        $ vipsthumbnail fred.png jim.tif

       will read image files fred.png and jim.tif and write thumbnails to the files tn_fred.jpg and tn_jim.jpg.

        $ vipsthumbnail --size=64 -o thumbnails/%s.png fred.jpg

       will read image file fred.jpg and write a 64 x 64 pixel thumbnail to the file thumbnails/fred.png.

OPTIONS
       -s N, --size=N
              Set the output thumbnail size to N x N pixels.

              You can use "MxN" to specify a rectangular bounding box.  The image is shrunk so that it just fits within this area, images which are smaller than this are expanded.

              Use "xN" or "Mx" to just resize on one axis.

              Append "<" to only resize if the input image is smaller than the target, append ">" to only resize if the input image is larger than the target.

       -o FORMAT, --output=FORMAT
              Set the output format string. The input filename has any file type suffix removed, then that value is substitued into FORMAT replacing %s.  If FORMAT is a relative path, the name of  the  input
              directory is prepended. In other words, any path in FORMAT is relative to the directory of the current input file.

              The default value is tn_%s.jpg meaning JPEG output, with tn_ prepended. You can add format options too, for example tn_%s.jpg[Q=20] will write JPEG images with Q set to 20.

       -e PROFILE, --eprofile=PROFILE
              Export  thumbnails with this ICC profile. Images are only colour-transformed if there is both an output and an input profile available. The input profile can either be embedded in the input im‐
              age or supplied with the --iprofile option.

       -i PROFILE, --iprofile=PROFILE
              Import images with this ICC profile, if no profile is embdedded in the image.  Images are only colour-transformed if there is both an output and an input profile available. The  output  profile
              should be supplied with the --oprofile option.

       -c, --crop
              Crop the output image down. The image is shrunk so as to completely fill the bounding box in both axes, then any excess is cropped off.

       -d, --delete
              Delete the output profile from the image. This can save a small amount of space.

       -t, --rotate
              Auto-rotate images using EXIF orientation tags.

       -a, --linear
              Shrink images in linear light colour space. This can be much slower.

RETURN VALUE
       returns 0 on success and non-zero on error. Error can mean one or more conversions failed.

SEE ALSO
       vipsheader(1)

                                                                                                  13 May 2010                                                                                  VIPSTHUMBNAIL(1)
