virt-builder-repository(1)  Virtualization Support  virt-builder-repository(1)

NAME
       virt-builder-repository - Build virt-builder source repository easily

SYNOPSIS
        virt-builder-repository /path/to/repository
           [-i|--interactive] [--gpg-key KEYID]

DESCRIPTION
       Virt-builder is a tool for quickly building new virtual machines. It
       can be configured to use template repositories. However creating and
       maintaining a repository involves many tasks which can be automated.
       virt-builder-repository is a tool helping to manage these repositories.

       Virt-builder-repository loops over the files in the directory specified
       as argument, compresses the files with a name ending by "qcow2", "raw",
       "img" or without extension, extracts data from them and creates or
       updates the "index" file.

       Some of the image-related data needed for the index file can’t be
       computed from the image file. virt-builder-repository first tries to
       find them in the existing index file. If data are still missing after
       this, they are prompted in interactive mode, otherwise an error will be
       triggered.

       If a "KEYID" is provided, the generated index file will be signed with
       this GPG key.

EXAMPLES
   Create the initial repository
       Create a folder and copy the disk image template files in it. Then run
       a command like the following one:

        virt-builder-repository --gpg-key "joe@hacker.org" -i /path/to/folder

       Note that this example command runs in interactive mode. To run in
       automated mode, a minimal index file needs to be created before running
       the command containing sections like this one:

        [template_id]
        file=template_filename.qcow.xz

       The file value needs to match the image name extended with the ".xz"
       suffix if the --no-compression parameter is not provided or the image
       name if no compression is involved. Other optional data can be
       prefilled. Default values are computed by inspecting the disk image.
       For more informations, see "Creating and signing the index file" in
       virt-builder(1).

   Update images in an existing repository
       In this use case, a new image or a new revision of an existing image
       needs to be added to the repository. Place the corresponding image
       template files in the repository folder.

       To update the revision of an image, the file needs to have the same
       name than the existing one (without the "xz" extension).

       As in the repository creation use case, a minimal fragment can be added
       to the index file for the automated mode. This can be done on the
       signed index even if it may sound a strange idea: the index will be
       signed again by the tool.

       To remove an image from the repository, just remove the corresponding
       image file before running virt-builder-repository.

       Then running the following command will complete and update the index
       file:

        virt-builder-repository --gpg-key "joe@hacker.org" -i /path/to/folder

       virt-builder-repository works in a temporary folder inside the
       repository one. If anything wrong happens when running the tool, the
       repository is left untouched.

OPTIONS
       --help
           Display help.

       --gpg GPG
           Specify an alternate gpg(1) (GNU Privacy Guard) binary.  You can
           also use this to add gpg parameters, for example to specify an
           alternate home directory:

            virt-builder-repository --gpg "gpg --homedir /tmp" [...]

           This can also be used to avoid gpg asking for the key passphrase:

            virt-builder-repository --gpg "gpg --passphrase-file /tmp/pass --batch" [...]

       -K KEYID
       --gpg-key KEYID
           Specify the GPG key to be used to sign the repository index file.
           If not provided, the index will left unsigned. "KEYID" is used to
           identify the GPG key to use. This value is passed to gpg’s
           --default-key option and can thus be an email address or a
           fingerprint.

           NOTE: by default, virt-builder-repository searches for the key in
           the user’s GPG keyring.

       -i
       --interactive
           Prompt for missing data. Default values are computed from the disk
           image.

           When prompted for data, inputting "-" corresponds to leaving the
           value empty. This can be used to avoid setting the default computed
           value.

       --no-compression
           Don’t compress the template images.

       --machine-readable
       --machine-readable=format
           This option is used to make the output more machine friendly when
           being parsed by other programs.  See "MACHINE READABLE OUTPUT"
           below.

       --colors
       --colours
           Use ANSI colour sequences to colourize messages.  This is the
           default when the output is a tty.  If the output of the program is
           redirected to a file, ANSI colour sequences are disabled unless you
           use this option.

       -q
       --quiet
           Don’t print ordinary progress messages.

       -v
       --verbose
           Enable debug messages and/or produce verbose output.

           When reporting bugs, use this option and attach the complete output
           to your bug report.

       -V
       --version
           Display version number and exit.

       -x  Enable tracing of libguestfs API calls.

MACHINE READABLE OUTPUT
       The --machine-readable option can be used to make the output more
       machine friendly, which is useful when calling virt-builder-repository
       from other programs, GUIs etc.

       Use the option on its own to query the capabilities of the virt-
       builder-repository binary.  Typical output looks like this:

        $ virt-builder-repository --machine-readable
        virt-builder-repository

       A list of features is printed, one per line, and the program exits with
       status 0.

       It is possible to specify a format string for controlling the output;
       see "ADVANCED MACHINE READABLE OUTPUT" in guestfs(3).

EXIT STATUS
       This program returns 0 if successful, or non-zero if there was an
       error.

SEE ALSO
       virt-builder(1) http://libguestfs.org/.

AUTHOR
       Cédric Bosdonnat mailto:cbosdonnat@suse.com

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2016-2019 SUSE Inc.

LICENSE
       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
       Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
       option) any later version.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
       with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
       51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

BUGS
       To get a list of bugs against libguestfs, use this link:
       https://bugzilla.redhat.com/buglist.cgi?component=libguestfs&product=Virtualization+Tools

       To report a new bug against libguestfs, use this link:
       https://bugzilla.redhat.com/enter_bug.cgi?component=libguestfs&product=Virtualization+Tools

       When reporting a bug, please supply:

       ·   The version of libguestfs.

       ·   Where you got libguestfs (eg. which Linux distro, compiled from
           source, etc)

       ·   Describe the bug accurately and give a way to reproduce it.

       ·   Run libguestfs-test-tool(1) and paste the complete, unedited output
           into the bug report.

libguestfs-1.40.2                 2019-02-07        virt-builder-repository(1)
