virt-tail(1)                Virtualization Support                virt-tail(1)

NAME
       virt-tail - Follow (tail) files in a virtual machine

SYNOPSIS
        virt-tail [--options] -d domname file [file ...]

        virt-tail [--options] -a disk.img [-a disk.img ...] file [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
       "virt-tail" is a command line tool to follow (tail) the contents of
       "file" where "file" exists in the named virtual machine (or disk
       image).  It is similar to the ordinary command "tail -f".

       Multiple filenames can be given, in which case each is followed
       separately.  Each filename must be a full path, starting at the root
       directory (starting with '/').

       The command keeps running until:

       ·   The user presses the ^C or an interrupt signal is received.

       ·   None of the listed files was found in the guest, or they all get
           deleted.

       ·   There is an unrecoverable error.

EXAMPLE
       Follow /var/log/messages inside a virtual machine called "mydomain":

        virt-tail -d mydomain /var/log/messages

OPTIONS
       --help
           Display brief help.

       -a file
       --add file
           Add file which should be a disk image from a virtual machine.  If
           the virtual machine has multiple block devices, you must supply all
           of them with separate -a options.

           The format of the disk image is auto-detected.  To override this
           and force a particular format use the --format=.. option.

       -a URI
       --add URI
           Add a remote disk.  See "ADDING REMOTE STORAGE" in guestfish(1).

       -c URI
       --connect URI
           If using libvirt, connect to the given URI.  If omitted, then we
           connect to the default libvirt hypervisor.

           If you specify guest block devices directly (-a), then libvirt is
           not used at all.

       -d guest
       --domain guest
           Add all the disks from the named libvirt guest.  Domain UUIDs can
           be used instead of names.

       --echo-keys
           When prompting for keys and passphrases, virt-tail normally turns
           echoing off so you cannot see what you are typing.  If you are not
           worried about Tempest attacks and there is no one else in the room
           you can specify this flag to see what you are typing.

       -f
       --follow
           This option is ignored.  virt-tail always behaves like tail(1) -f.
           You don't need to specify the -f option.

       --format=raw|qcow2|..
       --format
           The default for the -a option is to auto-detect the format of the
           disk image.  Using this forces the disk format for -a options which
           follow on the command line.  Using --format with no argument
           switches back to auto-detection for subsequent -a options.

           For example:

            virt-tail --format=raw -a disk.img file

           forces raw format (no auto-detection) for disk.img.

            virt-tail --format=raw -a disk.img --format -a another.img file

           forces raw format (no auto-detection) for disk.img and reverts to
           auto-detection for another.img.

           If you have untrusted raw-format guest disk images, you should use
           this option to specify the disk format.  This avoids a possible
           security problem with malicious guests (CVE-2010-3851).

       --key SELECTOR
           Specify a key for LUKS, to automatically open a LUKS device when
           using the inspection.  "ID" can be either the libguestfs device
           name, or the UUID of the LUKS device.

           --key "ID":key:KEY_STRING
               Use the specified "KEY_STRING" as passphrase.

           --key "ID":file:FILENAME
               Read the passphrase from FILENAME.

       --keys-from-stdin
           Read key or passphrase parameters from stdin.  The default is to
           try to read passphrases from the user by opening /dev/tty.

       -m dev[:mountpoint[:options[:fstype]]]
       --mount dev[:mountpoint[:options[:fstype]]]
           Mount the named partition or logical volume on the given
           mountpoint.

           If the mountpoint is omitted, it defaults to /.

           Specifying any mountpoint disables the inspection of the guest and
           the mount of its root and all of its mountpoints, so make sure to
           mount all the mountpoints needed to work with the filenames given
           as arguments.

           If you don’t know what filesystems a disk image contains, you can
           either run guestfish without this option, then list the partitions,
           filesystems and LVs available (see "list-partitions", "list-
           filesystems" and "lvs" commands), or you can use the
           virt-filesystems(1) program.

           The third (and rarely used) part of the mount parameter is the list
           of mount options used to mount the underlying filesystem.  If this
           is not given, then the mount options are either the empty string or
           "ro" (the latter if the --ro flag is used).  By specifying the
           mount options, you override this default choice.  Probably the only
           time you would use this is to enable ACLs and/or extended
           attributes if the filesystem can support them:

            -m /dev/sda1:/:acl,user_xattr

           Using this flag is equivalent to using the "mount-options" command.

           The fourth part of the parameter is the filesystem driver to use,
           such as "ext3" or "ntfs". This is rarely needed, but can be useful
           if multiple drivers are valid for a filesystem (eg: "ext2" and
           "ext3"), or if libguestfs misidentifies a filesystem.

       -v
       --verbose
           Enable verbose messages for debugging.

       -V
       --version
           Display version number and exit.

       -x  Enable tracing of libguestfs API calls.

LOG FILES
       To list out the log files from guests, see the related tool
       virt-log(1).  It understands binary log formats such as the systemd
       journal.

WINDOWS PATHS
       "virt-tail" has a limited ability to understand Windows drive letters
       and paths (eg. E:\foo\bar.txt).

       If and only if the guest is running Windows then:

       ·   Drive letter prefixes like "C:" are resolved against the Windows
           Registry to the correct filesystem.

       ·   Any backslash ("\") characters in the path are replaced with
           forward slashes so that libguestfs can process it.

       ·   The path is resolved case insensitively to locate the file that
           should be displayed.

       There are some known shortcomings:

       ·   Some NTFS symbolic links may not be followed correctly.

       ·   NTFS junction points that cross filesystems are not followed.

EXIT STATUS
       This program returns 0 if successful, or non-zero if there was an
       error.

SEE ALSO
       guestfs(3), guestfish(1), virt-copy-out(1), virt-cat(1), virt-log(1),
       virt-tar-out(1), tail(1), http://libguestfs.org/.

AUTHOR
       Richard W.M. Jones http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat Inc.

LICENSE
       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
       Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
       option) any later version.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
       with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
       51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

BUGS
       To get a list of bugs against libguestfs, use this link:
       https://bugzilla.redhat.com/buglist.cgi?component=libguestfs&product=Virtualization+Tools

       To report a new bug against libguestfs, use this link:
       https://bugzilla.redhat.com/enter_bug.cgi?component=libguestfs&product=Virtualization+Tools

       When reporting a bug, please supply:

       ·   The version of libguestfs.

       ·   Where you got libguestfs (eg. which Linux distro, compiled from
           source, etc)

       ·   Describe the bug accurately and give a way to reproduce it.

       ·   Run libguestfs-test-tool(1) and paste the complete, unedited output
           into the bug report.

libguestfs-1.40.2                 2019-02-07                      virt-tail(1)
