VIRT-WHAT(1)                                                                               Virtualization Support                                                                              VIRT-WHAT(1)

NAME
       virt-what - detect if we are running in a virtual machine

SUMMARY
       virt-what [options]

DESCRIPTION
       "virt-what" is a shell script which can be used to detect if the program is running in a virtual machine.

       The program prints out a list of "facts" about the virtual machine, derived from heuristics.  One fact is printed per line.

       If nothing is printed and the script exits with code 0 (no error), then it can mean either that the program is running on bare-metal or the program is running inside a type of virtual machine
       which we don't know about or cannot detect.

FACTS
       alibaba_cloud
       alibaba_cloud-ebm
           This is a cloud computing service based on Alibaba Cloud.

           Status: contributed by Weisson.

       aws Amazon Web Services.

           Note  that  virt-what  will  print  this  fact  for baremetal AWS instances, which you might not consider to be true virtualization.  In this case other facts (eg. "kvm" or "xen") would not be
           present.

           Status: contributed by Qi Guo, Vitaly Kuznetsov, confirmed by RWMJ.

       bhyve
           This is a bhyve (FreeBSD hypervisor) guest.

           Status: contributed by Leonardo Brondani Schenkel.

       crio
           The guest is running in a CRI-O container.

           Status: suggested by Alessandro Taufer, confirmed by RWMJ & Xiaodai Wang

       docker
           This is a Docker container.

           Status: confirmed by Charles Nguyen

       google_cloud
           This is running on Google Cloud Platform / Google Compute Engine.

           Status: confirmed by RWMJ

       hyperv
           This is Microsoft Hyper-V hypervisor.

           Status: confirmed by RWMJ

       ibm_power-kvm
           This is an IBM POWER KVM guest.

           Status: contributed by Adrian Likins.

       ibm_power-lpar_shared
       ibm_power-lpar_dedicated
           This is an IBM POWER LPAR (hardware partition) in either shared or dedicated mode.

           Status: contributed by Adrian Likins.

       ibm_systemz
           This is an IBM SystemZ (or other S/390) hardware partitioning system.  Additional facts listed below may also be printed.

       ibm_systemz-direct
           This is Linux running directly on an IBM SystemZ hardware partitioning system.

           This is expected to be a highly unusual configuration - if you see this result you should treat it with suspicion.

           Status: not confirmed

       ibm_systemz-lpar
           This is Linux running directly on an LPAR on an IBM SystemZ hardware partitioning system.

           Status: confirmed by Thomas Huth

       ibm_systemz-zvm
           This is a z/VM guest running in an LPAR on an IBM SystemZ hardware partitioning system.

           Status: confirmed by RWMJ using a Fedora guest running in z/VM

       ibm_systemz-kvm
           This is a KVM guest running on an IBM System Z hardware system.

           Status: contributed by Thomas Huth

       illumos-lx
           The guest is running on Illumos with a Linux syscall emulation layer.

           Status: contributed by Steve Mokris

       ldoms
           The guest appears to be running on a Linux SPARC system with Oracle VM Server for SPARC (Logical Domains) support.

           Status: contributed by Darren Kenny

       ldoms-control
           The is the Oracle VM Server for SPARC (Logical Domains) control domain.

           Status: contributed by Darren Kenny

       ldoms-guest
           The is the Oracle VM Server for SPARC (Logical Domains) guest domain.

           Status: contributed by Darren Kenny

       ldoms-io
           The is the Oracle VM Server for SPARC (Logical Domains) I/O domain.

           Status: contributed by Darren Kenny

       ldoms-root
           The is the Oracle VM Server for SPARC (Logical Domains) Root domain.

           Status: contributed by Darren Kenny

       linux_vserver
           This is printed for backwards compatibility with older virt-what which could not distinguish between a Linux VServer container guest and host.

       linux_vserver-guest
           This process is running in a Linux VServer container.

           Status: contributed by Barış Metin

       linux_vserver-host
           This process is running as the Linux VServer host (VxID 0).

           Status: contributed by Barış Metin and Elan Ruusamäe

       lxc This process is running in a Linux LXC container.

           Status: contributed by Marc Fournier

       kvm This guest is running on the KVM hypervisor using hardware acceleration.

           Note that if the hypervisor is using software acceleration you should not see this, but should see the "qemu" fact instead.

           Status: confirmed by RWMJ.

       lkvm
           This guest is running on the KVM hypervisor using hardware acceleration, and the userspace component of the hypervisor is lkvm (a.k.a kvmtool).

           Status: contributed by Andrew Jones

       nutanix_ahv
           The guest is running inside Nutanix Acropolis Hypervisor (AHV).

           Status: confirmed by RWMJ.

       oci The guest is running in an OCI container.

           Status: contributed by Alessandro Valentini, confirmed by RWMJ

       openvz
           The guest appears to be running inside an OpenVZ or Virtuozzo container.

           Status: contributed by Evgeniy Sokolov

       ovirt
           The guest is running on an oVirt node.  (See also "rhev" below).

           Status: contributed by RWMJ, not confirmed

       parallels
           The guest is running inside Parallels Virtual Platform (Parallels Desktop, Parallels Server).

           Status: contributed by Justin Clift

       podman
           This is a Podman container.  (See also "oci" above.)

           Status: contributed by Jordan Webb

       powervm_lx86
           The guest is running inside IBM PowerVM Lx86 Linux/x86 emulator.

           Status: data originally supplied by Jeffrey Scheel, confirmed by Yufang Zhang and RWMJ

       qemu
           This is QEMU hypervisor using software emulation.

           Note that for KVM (hardware accelerated) guests you should not see this.

           Status: confirmed by RWMJ.

       rhev
           The guest is running on a Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization (RHEV) node.

           Status: confirmed by RWMJ

       redhat
           The guest is running on the Red Hat hypervisor.

           Status: confirmed by RWMJ

       uml This is a User-Mode Linux (UML) guest.

           Status: contributed by Laurent Léonard

       upcloud
           This is running on UpCloud.

           Status: contributed by Ville Skyttä

       virt
           Some sort of virtualization appears to be present, but we are not sure what it is.  In some very rare corner cases where we know that virtualization is hard to detect, we  will  try  a  timing
           attack to see if certain machine instructions are running much more slowly than they should be, which would indicate virtualization.  In this case, the generic fact "virt" is printed.

       virtage
           This is Hitachi Virtualization Manager (HVM) Virtage hardware partitioning system.

           Status: data supplied by Bhavna Sarathy, not confirmed

       virtualbox
           This is a VirtualBox guest.

           Status: contributed by Laurent Léonard

       virtualpc
           The guest appears to be running on Microsoft VirtualPC.

           Status: not confirmed

       vmm This is a vmm (OpenBSD hypervisor) guest.

           Status: contributed by Jasper Lievisse Adriaanse.

       vmware
           The guest appears to be running on VMware hypervisor.

           Status: confirmed by RWMJ

       xen The guest appears to be running on Xen hypervisor.

           Status: confirmed by RWMJ

       xen-dom0
           This is the Xen dom0 (privileged domain).

           Status: confirmed by RWMJ

       xen-domU
           This is a Xen domU (paravirtualized guest domain).

           Status: confirmed by RWMJ

       xen-hvm
           This is a Xen guest fully virtualized (HVM).

           Status: confirmed by RWMJ

EXIT STATUS
       Programs that use or wrap "virt-what" should check that the exit status is 0 before they attempt to parse the output of the command.

       A  non-zero exit status indicates some error, for example, an unrecognized command line argument.  If the exit status is non-zero then the output "facts" (if any were printed) cannot be guaranteed
       and should be ignored.

       The exit status does not have anything to do with whether the program is running on baremetal or under virtualization,  nor  with  whether  "virt-what"  managed  detection  "correctly"  (which  is
       basically unknowable given the large variety of virtualization systems out there and that some systems deliberately emulate others).

RUNNING VIRT-WHAT FROM OTHER PROGRAMS
       "virt-what" is designed so that you can easily run it from other programs or wrap it up in a library.

       Your program should check the exit status (see the section above).

       Some  programming  languages  (notably  Python:  issue  1652) erroneously mask the "SIGPIPE" signal and do not restore it when executing subprocesses.  "virt-what" is a shell script and some shell
       commands do not work correctly when you do this.  You may see warnings from "virt-what" similar to this:

        echo: write error: Broken pipe

       The solution is to set the "SIGPIPE" signal handler back to "SIG_DFL" before running "virt-what".

IMPORTANT NOTE
       Most of the time, using this program is the wrong thing to do.  Instead you should detect the specific features you actually want to use.  (As an example, if you wanted  to  issue  Xen  hypervisor
       commands you would look for the "/proc/xen/privcmd" file).

       However people keep asking for this, so we provide it.  There are a few legitimate uses:

       Bug reporting tool
           If you think that virtualization could affect how your program runs, then you might use "virt-what" to report this in a bug reporting tool.

       Status display and monitoring tools
           You might include this information in status and monitoring programs.

       System tuning (sometimes)
           You  might  use this program to tune an operating system so it runs better as a virtual machine of a particular hypervisor.  However if installing paravirtualized drivers, it's better to check
           for the specific features your drivers need (eg. for the presence of PCI devices).

SEE ALSO
       virt-what-cvm(1),     <http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/virt-what/>,     <http://www.vmware.com/>,     <http://www.microsoft.com/windows/products/winfamily/virtualpc>,     <http://xensource.com/>,
       <http://bellard.org/qemu/>, <http://kvm.qumranet.com/>, <http://openvz.org/>

AUTHORS
       Richard W.M. Jones <rjones @ redhat . com>

COPYRIGHT
       (C) Copyright 2008-2024 Red Hat Inc., <http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/virt-what/>

       This  program  is  free  software;  you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
       License, or (at your option) any later version.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR  PURPOSE.   See  the  GNU
       General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

REPORTING BUGS
       Bugs can be viewed on the Red Hat Bugzilla page: <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/>.

       If you find a bug in virt-what, please follow these steps to report it:

       1. Check for existing bug reports
           Go to <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/> and search for similar bugs.  Someone may already have reported the same bug, and they may even have fixed it.

       2. Capture debug and error messages
           Run

            virt-what > virt-what.log 2>&1

           and keep virt-what.log.  It may contain error messages which you should submit with your bug report.

       3. Get version of virt-what.
           Run

            virt-what --version

       4. Submit a bug report.
           Go to <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/> and enter a new bug.  Please describe the problem in as much detail as possible.

           Remember to include the version numbers (step 3) and the debug messages file (step 2) and as much other detail as possible.

       5. Assign the bug to rjones @ redhat.com
           Assign or reassign the bug to rjones @ redhat.com (without the spaces).  You can also send me an email with the bug number if you want a faster response.

virt-what-1.27                                                                                   2024-09-16                                                                                    VIRT-WHAT(1)
