VIS-CLIPBOARD(1)                                                                          BSD General Commands Manual                                                                          VIS-CLIPBOARD(1)

NAME
     vis-clipboard — Read from or write to the system clipboard

SYNOPSIS
     vis-clipboard --usable

     vis-clipboard --copy [--selection selection]

     vis-clipboard --paste [--selection selection]

DESCRIPTION
     vis-clipboard wraps various system-specific tools for interacting with a system clipboard, like xsel(1) for X11, pbcopy(1) for Mac OS X, and /dev/clipboard on Cygwin.

     vis-clipboard can run in three different ways, depending on the flag given on the command-line.

     --usable
           In this mode, vis-clipboard looks for a way to interface with the system clipboard.  If it finds one, it terminates with exit code 0.  If no interface to the system clipboard is available, it ter‐
           minates with exit code 1.

     --copy
           In this mode, vis-clipboard reads the content of standard input, and stores it in the system clipboard.

     --paste
           In this mode, vis-clipboard reads the content of the system clipboard, and writes it to standard output.

     --selection selection
           specify which selection to use, options are "primary" or "clipboard"

ENVIRONMENT
     The following environment variables affect the operation of vis-clipboard:

     DISPLAY          If non-empty, vis-clipboard will prefer to access the X11 clipboard even if other options are available.

EXIT STATUS
     The vis-clipboard utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.  When run with the --usable flag, an exit status of 0 means that it found a supported system-specific tool, while 1 means that
     clipboard access is not available.

EXAMPLES
     Test whether clipboard access is available:

           if vis-clipboard --usable; then
                   echo "Clipboard access available"
           else
                   echo "No clipboard"
           fi

     Copy a friendly greeting to the clipboard:

           echo "Hello, World" | vis-clipboard --copy

     Send the current contents of the system clipboard to be recorded and analyzed:

           vis-clipboard --paste | curl -d - https://www.nsa.gov/

SEE ALSO
     pbcopy(1), pbpaste(1), vis(1), xclip(1), xsel(1)

Vis v0.7                                                                                       November 29, 2016                                                                                       Vis v0.7
