VIS-COMPLETE(1)                                                                           BSD General Commands Manual                                                                           VIS-COMPLETE(1)

NAME
     vis-complete — Interactively complete file or word

SYNOPSIS
     vis-complete [--file] [--word] [--] [pattern]

     vis-complete -h | --help

DESCRIPTION
     vis-complete takes a pattern on the command-line and completes file or word and displays them in a menu for the user to select one.  Once the user has selected a completion, the completion (excluding
     the pattern) is printed to standard output.

     vis-complete uses vis-menu(1) as its user-interface, so see that page for more details.

     --file
           This passes pattern to find to obtain a list of matching file names.

     --word
           This reads standard input to obtain a list of lines matching pattern.

     --    If this token is encountered before the first non-option argument, all following arguments will be treated as pattern, even if they would otherwise be valid command-line options.

           If encountered after the first non-option argument, or after a previous instance of -- it is treated as a pattern.

     pattern
           The pattern to be completed by file or word.

     -h | --help
           If present, vis-complete prints a usage summary and exits, ignoring any other flag and arguments.

EXIT STATUS
     The vis-complete utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

     In particular, like vis-menu(1), vis-complete prints nothing and sets its exit status to 1 if the user refused to select a file.

SEE ALSO
     vis(1), vis-menu(1)

BUGS
     Because vis-complete uses find(1) to obtain the list of files, weird things might happen if you have control-characters in your filenames.

Vis v0.7                                                                                        January 15, 2017                                                                                       Vis v0.7
