VISOLATE(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               VISOLATE(1)

NAME
       visolate - tool for engraving PCBs using CNCs

SYNOPSIS
       visolate [options] [file]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the visolate command.

       visolate reads the gerber files describing printed circuit boards and converts them into the G-code (RS-274 code) needed to engrave they layout into a board using a CNC machine. Precise renditions
       of the original layout can be created as well as voronoi fillings of the original layout, shortening the toolpath.

OPTIONS
       A summary of options is included below.

       -a, --auto
              Enable auto-mode. When in auto-mode, visolate will load the given file, follow the usual steps (fix topology, generate toolpaths), save the toolpaths and exit afterwards.

              This is primarily intended for use in scripts; be aware that visolate still needs a connected X display and a graphics card to do its calculations.

       -absolute
              Use absolute coordinates (instead of relative, which is the default).

       -d, --dpi DPI
              Do all calculations with a resolution of the DPI parameter.

       -o, --outfile OUTFILE
              Set the default output location to OUTFIlE.

              This is particularly useful in combination with --auto.

       -x, --flip-x
              Flip the input file's X coordinates (reflect across the Y axis).

       -y, --flip-y
              Flip the input file's Y coordinates (reflect across the X axis).

       -h, --help
              Show summary of options.

       -version
              Show version of program.

AUTHOR
       visolate was written by Marsette Vona and Marcus Wolschon.

       This manual page was written by chrysn <chrysn@fsfe.org>, for the Debian project (and may be used by others).

                                                                                                 2010-10-27                                                                                     VISOLATE(1)
