vkmark(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 vkmark(1)

NAME
       vkmark - Vulkan benchmark suite

SYNOPSIS
       vkmark [options]

DESCRIPTION
       vkmark is an extensible Vulkan benchmarking suite with targeted, configurable scenes.

OPTIONS
       -b, --benchmark BENCH
              A benchmark to run: 'scene(:opt1=val1)*' (the option can be used multiple times)

       -s, --size WxH
              Size of the output window (default: 800x600)

       --fullscreen
              Run in fullscreen mode (equivalent to --size -1x-1)

       -p, --present-mode PM
              Vulkan present mode (default: mailbox) [immediate, mailbox, fifo, fiforelaxed]

       --pixel-format PF
              Vulkan pixel format (default: choose best)

       -l, --list-scenes
              Display information about the available scenes and their options

       --show-all-options
              Show all scene option values used for benchmarks (only explicitly set options are shown by default)

       --winsys-dir DIR
              Directory to search in for window system plugins

       --data-dir DIR
              Directory to search in for scene data files

       --winsys WS
              Window system plugin to use (default: choose best) [xcb, wayland, kms]

       --winsys-options OPTS
              Window system options as 'opt1=val1(:opt2=val2)*'

       --run-forever
              Run indefinitely, looping from the last benchmark back to the first

       -d, --debug
              Display debug messages

       -D, --use-device
              Use Vulkan device with specified UUID

       -L, --list-devices
              List Vulkan devices

       -h, --help
              Display help

BENCHMARKS
       vkmark  offers  a  suite  of  scenes that can be used to measure various aspects of Vulkan performance. The way in which each scene is rendered is configurable through a set of options. To get the
       available scenes and their acceptable options you can use the -l, --list-scenes command line option.

       In vkmark, a benchmark is defined as a scene plus a set of option values.  You can specify the list and order of the benchmarks to run by using the -b, --benchmark command  line  option  (possibly
       multiple times).  If no benchmarks are specified, a default set of benchmarks is used. If a benchmark option is not specified it assumes its default value (listed with -l, --list-scenes).

       As  a  special  case,  a  benchmark description string is allowed to not contain a scene name (i.e. to start with ':'). In this case, any specified option values are used as the default values for
       benchmarks following this description string.

EXAMPLES
       To run the default benchmarks:

              vkmark

       To run a benchmark using scene 'vertex' with a 'duration' of '5.0' seconds and 'interleave' set to 'false':

              vkmark -b vertex:duration=5.0:interleave=false

       To run a series of benchmarks use the -b, --benchmark command line option multiple times:

              vkmark -b vertex:duration=5.0 -b clear:color=1.0,0.5,0 -b cube

       To set default option values for benchmarks and run them:

              vkmark -b :duration=2.0 -b vertex -b clear -b :duration=5.0 -b cube

       To set default option values for the default benchmarks and run them:

              vkmark -b :duration=2.0

AUTHOR
       vkmark was written by Alexandros Frantzis

vkmark 2025.01                                                                                  January 2025                                                                                      vkmark(1)
