vodovod(6)                                                                                         Games                                                                                         vodovod(6)

NAME
       vodovod - lead the water from the house to the storage tank

SYNOPSIS
       vodovod

DESCRIPTION
       Vodovod  is  a  free  game, released under GNU GPL license. Graphics and programming are done by Milan Babuskov. This is an over-weekend project for now, so don't expect miracles. However, game is
       completely playable.

       The goal of the game is to reach the highest possible score. You get a limited number of pipes on each level and need to combine them to lead the water from the house at the top of the  screen  to
       the  storage tank at the bottom. For each pipe water goes through, you get 20 points and if you fill the cross-pipe both ways, you get 60 points. At end of each level, you are awarded depending on
       the skill level:

        * Beginner: 100 points
        * Toolman: 100 points + number of pipes remaining
        * Master plumber: 100 points + 2 x number of pipes remaining

       Some of the levels have obstacles where you cannot place pipes, checkpoints through which the water must go and holes in the ground that slow the flow. Select HELP from the main menu to  get  more
       info. The game is playable with joystick/joypad: just move it and press buttons when you go to Options -> Configure controls

USAGE
       The goal of the game is to use pipes to connect the house at the top of the screen with the tank at the bottom. You have time to construct the initial pipeline before the man enters the house.

       For  each level you get a limited number of pipes, so use them wisely. If you make a mistake, you can place another pipe over it.

       There are certain special blocks in the map:
        * Blocked Area       - You cannot place pipes on these fields.
        * Checkpoint         - Your pipeline must go through this field.
        * Hole in the ground - Slows down the flow.

SEE ALSO
       You can find more information at http://home.gna.org/vodovod/

                                                                                                  May 2007                                                                                       vodovod(6)
