TONEDEBUG(1)                                                     Voicetronix Telephony Tools                                                     TONEDEBUG(1)

NAME
       tonedebug - Test parameters for the libvpb programmable tone detector

SYNOPSIS
       tonedebug [options]

DESCRIPTION
       The  tonedebug utility assists with quickly testing tone detector parameters against the signals they are intended to detect.  It has three main modes
       of operation for testing single continuous or pulsed tones, or for testing a set of tones specified in the environment.

OPTIONS
       The following common options apply for all modes:

       --card number
              Explicitly select the card to test.  Default is card 0.

       --port number
              Explicitly select the port to test. Default is port 0 of the card being tested.

       -w wavfile
              Specify a wav file to play the tones from.  For OpenLine and OpenSwitch cards it should be played to an FXO port with no phone line  connected,
              and  the tone detector will process the reflected signal from the hybrid circuit.  The OpenPCI cards have almost no echo from this circuit, but
              an on hook phone connected to an FXS port should produce a detectable echo signal.

       -s filename.c
              Writes out a C function that can be included in your own code to configure the tone generator with the settings being tested.

   Environment options
       To run tonedebug using the settings specified with the VPB_TONE environment variables, call it with the -e option.  For example:

        $ tonedebug -e --port 4 -w my.wav

       Will use the enviroment settings to try and detect tones from my.wav played into port 4 of card 0.  There are no other options specific to this mode.

   Continuous tone options
       If passed the -c option, then the tonedebug utility will test parameters suitable for a continuous tone.  For example:

        $ tonedebug -c 425 100 2000 -w dialtone.wav -t dial

       Will try to detect 2 seconds of 425Hz tone from dialtone.wav, played into port 0 of card 0.  If it succeeds it will report a dial event.  The  follow‐
       ing additional options may be used in this mode:

       -c center-freq bandwidth duration
              Specifies the primary tone characteristics, its frequency and bandwidth in Hz.  and its minimum duration in milliseconds.

       -d center-freq2 bandwidth2
              Specifies the second tone of a multi-frequency tone.

       -q twist
              Specifies the twist of a multi-frequency tone.

       -n snr Specifies the acceptable signal to noise ratio, in dB.

       -t dial | busy | ringback
              Specifies the name of a predefined tone to replace with the given settings.

   Pulsed tone options
       The  -p  options  will enable testing for pulsed tones.  In addition to the common options and the options for continuous tones, the following options
       are supported in this mode:

       -p center-freq bandwidth on-time
              Specifies the primary tone characteristics, its frequency and bandwidth in Hz.  and its 'on' time in milliseconds.

       -off  off-time
              The 'off' time of the pulse in milliseconds.

SEE ALSO
       tonetrain(1)

BUGS
       We rely on an echo from the hardware to feed the signal into the tone detector.  This should be fixed to feed it in directly at some stage in the  fu‐
       ture.

AUTHOR
       Ron Lee, David Rowe, Voicetronix <support@voicetronix.com.au>

       This manual page was written by Ron <ron@debian.org>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

VPB driver package                                                       Feb 2, 2007                                                             TONEDEBUG(1)
