VPREREX(1)                                                                                                                                                                                       VPREREX(1)

NAME
       vprerex - graphical front-end and viewer for the prerex(1) prerequisite-chart editor

SYNOPSIS
       vprerex basefile[.tex] [ chartfile[.tex] ]

       vprerex file.pdf

       vprerex

DESCRIPTION
       vprerex  (visual prerex) is a GUI front-end and viewer for the prerex(1) interactive editor of prerequisite-chart descriptions in the prerex(5) format.  The viewer may be used just as a minimalis‐
       tic viewer of arbitrary PDF files  but supports editing of charts generated using prerex.sty(7) by allowing coordinates of course boxes, arrows, and background points to be conveyed  back  to  the
       prerex(1) command-line using the clipboard.

USAGE
       If vprerex is invoked on a PDF file, it simply displays that file.

       If  the  (first)  argument does not have the .pdf suffix, it is assumed to be the base file for a LaTeX document containing a prerequisite-chart description in prerex(5) format, to be edited using
       prerex(1).  If a second argument is supplied, it is regarded as an included file containing the specific chart environment to be edited.

       If no arguments are supplied, a file-opening dialog allows the user the specify the prerex(1) base file to be edited (or the PDF file to be viewed); if a separate chartfile is  needed,  vprerex(1)
       must be invoked wth two arguments on the command line.

       If  the  mouse  hovers over a hyperlink in the PDF viewing window, the cursor shape will change to a pointing finger and a tooltip will display the URI.  If the PDF file displayed contains a chart
       generated using prerex.sty(7) and the background coordinate grid has been enabled, left-clicking the mouse on a course box, arrow mid-point, or background point will load the relevant  coordinates
       into the X clipboard.  The cursor shape changes to a plus-sign to indicate successful capture of the coordinates.  Middle-clicking the mouse at the prerex(1) command-line will then paste those co‐
       ordinates into a command being composed.  If the chart file is regenerated, the updated document will be re-loaded.

DEPENDENCIES
       vprerex is based on the Qt-4 library. It calls xterm(1) and prerex(1) for the editing window and uses poppler-qt4 for rendering PDF files.

AUTHOR
       R. D. Tennent (rdt@cs.queensu.ca), adapted from David Boddie's PDFviewer, described in the QT Quarterly: http://doc.trolltech.com/qq/QtQuarterly27.pdf.

SEE ALSO
       prerex(1), prerex(5), prerex.sty(7), and xterm(1).

vprerex-6.2                                                                                      2011-10-28                                                                                      VPREREX(1)
