VTYSH(1)                                                                                              FRR                                                                                              VTYSH(1)

NAME
       vtysh - an integrated shell for FRRouting.

SYNOPSIS
       vtysh [ -b ]

       vtysh [ -E ] [ -d daemon ] [ -c command ]

DESCRIPTION
       vtysh is an integrated shell for the FRRouting suite of protocol daemons.

OPTIONS
       OPTIONS available for the vtysh command:

       -b, --boot
              Execute boot startup configuration. It makes sense only if integrated config file is in use (not default in FRRouting). See Info file frr for more info.

       -c, --command command
              Specify command to be executed under batch mode. It behaves like -c option in any other shell - command is executed and vtysh exits.

              It's  useful  for  gathering  info  from  FRRouting daemons or reconfiguring daemons from inside shell scripts, etc. Note that multiple commands may be executed by using more than one -c option
              and/or embedding linefeed characters inside the command string.

       -d, --daemon daemon_name
              Specify which daemon to connect to. By default, vtysh attempts to connect to all FRRouting daemons running on the system. With this flag, one can specify a single daemon to connect to  instead.
              For example, specifying '-d ospfd' will connect only to ospfd. This can be particularly useful inside scripts with -c where the command is targeted for a single daemon.

       -e, --execute command
              Alias for -c. It's here only for compatibility with Zebra routing software and older FRR versions. This will be removed in future.

       -E, --echo
              When  the  -c  option is being used, this flag will cause the standard vtysh prompt and command to be echoed prior to displaying the results. This is particularly useful to separate the results
              when executing multiple commands.

       -C, --dryrun
              When the -C option is being used, this flag will check the config for syntatic validity.

       -m, --markfile
              Mark the input file with context ends, useful for cleanup of a config file that has a lot of extraneous space and end markers

       -n, --noerror
              When executing cli that does not invoke a vtysh shell, if an error ocurrs ignore it for purposes of return codes from vtysh.

       -u, --user
              Restrict access to configuration commands by preventing use of the "enable" command. This option provides the same limited "security" as password-protected telnet access. This  security  should
              not be relied on in production environments.

              Caveat  emptor:  VTYSH  was  never  designed to be a privilege broker and is not built using secure coding practices. No guarantees of security are provided for this option and under no circum‐
              stances should this option be used to provide any semblance of secure read-only access to FRR.

       -h, --help
              Display a usage message on standard output and exit.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       VTYSH_PAGER
              This should be the name of the pager to use. Default is more.

FILES
       /usr/lib/frr/vtysh
              The default location of the vtysh binary.

       /etc/frr/vtysh.conf
              The default location of the vtysh config file.

       /etc/frr/frr.conf
              The default location of the integrated FRRouting routing engine config file if integrated config file is in use.

       ${HOME}/.history_frr
              Location of history of commands entered via cli

       $(PWD)/vtysh.log
              If the vtysh process is configured to output logs to a file, then you will find this file in the directory where you started vtysh.

WARNING
       This man page is intended to be a quick reference for command line  options.  The  definitive  document  is  the  info  file  frr  7.5  or  the  documentation  available  on  the  project  website  at
       https://frrouting.org/.

DIAGNOSTICS
       The daemon may log to standard output, to a VTY, to a log file, or through syslog to the system logs. FRR supports many debugging options, see the Info file, web docs or source for details.

SEE ALSO
       frr-zebra(8), vtysh(1), frr-ripd(8), frr-ripngd(8), frr-ospfd(8), frr-ospf6d(8), frr-bgpd(8), frr-isisd(8), frr-babeld(8), frr-nhrpd(8), frr-pimd(8), frr-pbrd(8), frr-ldpd(8), frr-eigrpd(8), frr-stat‐
       icd(8), frr-fabricd(8), frr-vrrpd(8), mtracebis(8) https://frrouting.org/

BUGS
       FRR eats bugs for breakfast. If you have food for the maintainers, please email <dev@lists.frrouting.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       2017, FRR

7.5                                                                                               Jan 19, 2021                                                                                         VTYSH(1)
