WAIT4X(1)                                                               User Commands                                                               WAIT4X(1)

NAME
       wait4x - Wait for a port or a service to enter the requested state

DESCRIPTION
       Wait4X allows waiting for a port to enter into specify state or waiting for a service e.g. redis, mysql, postgres, ... to enter inter ready state

   Usage:
              wait4x [command]

   Available Commands:
       dns    Check DNS records

       exec   Check command execution

       help   Help about any command

       http   Check HTTP connection

       influxdb
              Check InfluxDB connection - this feature is disabled

       kafka  Check Kafka connection

       mongodb
              Check MongoDB connection

       mysql  Check MySQL connection

       postgresql
              Check PostgreSQL connection

       rabbitmq
              Check RabbitMQ connection

       redis  Check Redis connection - this feature is disabled

       tcp    Check TCP connection

       temporal
              Check Temporal connection - this feature is disabled

       version
              Show Wait4X version information

   Flags:
       --backoff-exponential-coefficient float
              Coefficient used to calculate the exponential backoff when backoff-policy is exponential. (default 2)

       --backoff-exponential-max-interval duration
              Maximum interval time between each loop when backoff-policy is exponential. (default 5s)

       --backoff-policy string
              Select the backoff policy ("linear"|"exponential". (default "linear")

       -h, --help
              help for wait4x

       -i, --interval duration
              Interval time between each loop. (default 1s)

       -v, --invert-check
              Invert the sense of checking.

       --no-color
              If specified, output won't contain any color.

       -q, --quiet
              Quiet or silent mode. Do not show logs or error messages.

       -t, --timeout duration
              Timeout is the maximum amount of time that Wait4X will wait for a checking operation, 0 is unlimited. (default 10s)

       Use "wait4x [command] --help" for more information about a command.

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for wait4x is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the info and wait4x programs are properly installed at your site, the command

              info wait4x

       should give you access to the complete manual.

wait4x 3.6.0                                                            February 2026                                                               WAIT4X(1)
