WALLCH(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                              WALLCH(1)

NAME
       wallch - Wallpaper Changer

SYNOPSIS
       wallch [options]

DECRIPTION
       Wallch   is  a  free  and  open-source application for managing your desktop background.  It comes with various functions, such as rotating your hard drive's wallpapers, live earth, wikipedia
       picture of the day, wallpaper clocks and live website.  It  supports Gnome (with or without Unity integration), LXDE and XFCE desktop environments.  Wallch can work with or without its Graph‐
       ical User Interface, for extra lightweightness.

OPTIONS
       Please notice that all the options, except from --change, --help, --cache, --fcache, and --version, will be sent to  the  already running instance of Wallch, if there is one.
       --help
           Shows a menu with the available options.
       --change[=DIRECTORY]
           Picks  a random image and sets it as desktop background from the last used folder. However, if a DIRECTORY is specified, then that directory is recursively searched for images and a  ran‐
           dom one is picked from there.
       --start
           Starts the wallpaper changing process using the last specified folder.
       --earth
           Starts the live earth process.
       --potd
           Starts the picture of the day process.
       --clock
           Starts the wallpaper clocks process.
       --website
           Starts the live website process.
       --stop
           Stops any running process, like live earth or picture of the day.
       --quit
           Closes any instances of the program.
       --next
           Proceeds to the next image, if available. This works only when the normal wallpaper changing process is running.
       --previous
           Proceeds to the previous image, if available. This works only when the normal wallpaper changing process is running.
       --pause
           Pauses the normal wallpaper changing process.
       --cache DIRECTORY
           Searches DIRECTORY recursively for supported images and caches them. This allows a much better experience  when  viewing  the images  of this DIRECTORY from Wallch, because they load much
           faster.  Please  note  that  this  argument takes into consideration the cache limit and may delete some cached images of the specified folder if this limit is exceeded. Wallch by default
           caches the images while they are being viewed, so this option may only be used if the user does not want to wait for the pictures to load and be cached when viewed for the first time from
           Wallch.
       --fcache DIRECTORY
           Same as --cache but without taking into consideration the cache limits. If you open Wallch's Graphical User Interface  afterwards,  the  limits will be taken into  consideration  and  the
           extra images will be deleted. Wallch calculates which images are most likely not to be seen according to the last used folder, and it deletes the extra images from the cache, if the limit
           is  exceeded.  This  option  is  useful  when you simply want to generate thumbnails for all the images in a folder or you simply don't want to wait for Wallch to calculate and delete the
           extra images for the time being.
       --version
           Shows the program's version.

BUGS
       If you find a bug, please report it at alexsol.developer@gmail.com, leon.vitanos@gmail.com or at launchpad  (https://bugs.launchpad.net/wallpaper-changer)

AUTHORS
       Leon Vitanos (leon.vitanos@gmail.com)

       Alex Solanos (alexsol.developer@gmail.com)

                                                                                             February 2014                                                                                   WALLCH(1)
