
watson(1)                                                                                     Monitoring your time                                                                                    watson(1)

NAME
       watson - helps you monitoring your time

SYNOPSIS
        watson [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...

DESCRIPTION
       Watson is a tool aimed at helping you monitoring your time.

       You just have to tell Watson when you start working on your project with the `start` command, and you can stop the timer when you're done with the `stop` command.

OPTIONS
       ‐‐version
              Show the version and exit.

       ‐‐help Show this manpage and exit.

COMMANDS
       cancel Cancel the last call to the start command. The time will not be recorded.

       config Get and set configuration options.

       edit   Edit a frame.

       frames Display the list of all frame IDs.

       help   Display help information.

       log    Display each recorded session during the given timespan

       merge  Perform a merge of the existing frames with a conflicting frames file.

       projects
              Display the list of all the existing projects.

       remove Remove a frame.

       rename Rename a project or tag.

       report Display a report of the time spent on each project.

       restart
              Restart monitoring time for a previously stopped project.

       start  Start monitoring time for the given project.

       status Display when the current project was started and the time spent since.

       stop   Stop monitoring time for the current project.

       sync   Get the frames from the server and push the new ones.

       tags   Display the list of all the tags.

NOTE
       This  manual page was generate by genallman shellscript that uses txt2man.  The script was created by Joao Eriberto Mota Filho <eriberto@debian.org>. The manpage was made for the watson package of the
       Debian project (but may be used by others)

       If more information is necessary, please read the online documentation at https://tailordev.github.io/Watson/user-guide/commands/

Watson 1.6.0                                                                                        Mai 2018                                                                                          watson(1)
