wavemon(1)                                                               User Manuals                                                              wavemon(1)

NAME
       wavemon - a wireless network monitor

SYNOPSIS
       wavemon [-h] [-i ifname ] [-g] [-v]

DESCRIPTION
       wavemon  is  a ncurses-based monitoring application for wireless network devices. It plots levels in real-time as well as showing wireless and network
       related device information.

       The wavemon interface splits into different "screens".  Each screen presents information in a specific manner. For example, the  "info"  screen  shows
       current levels as bargraphs, whereas the "level" screen represents the same levels as a moving histogram.

       On  startup,  you'll  see (depending on configuration) one of the different monitor screens. At the bottom, you'll find a menu-bar listing the screens
       and their activating keys. Each screen is activated by either the corresponding function key or the key corresponding to the first  character  of  the
       screen name. The following screens can be selected:

       Info (F1 or 'i')
              This  is the most comprehensive screen. It displays a condensed overview of wireless-specific parameters and network statistics, as well as bar
              graphs.  The layout is arranged into several sub-sections.

              The Interface section at the top shows information about the monitoring interface, including interface name, type, ESSID, and available encryp‐
              tion formats.

              Below, in the Levels section, you can see up to four bargraphs showing (1) relative signal quality and (2) signal level in dBm. If the wireless
              driver also supports noise level information, additionally (3) noise level in dBm and (4) Signal-Noise-Ratio (SNR) in dB are shown.  The colour
              of the signal level bargraph changes from red to yellow and green at fixed levels. If thresholds have been set, two arrows on the signal  level
              graph will show the positions of the current thresholds.

              The Statistics section displays packet and byte counters and a few other packet-related statistics.

              The  subsequent  Info  subsection  lists the current operational mode and configuration of the wireless interface. What parameters are actually
              shown depends on the capabilities and selected mode of your network device.

              Lastly, the Network section shows network-level parameters. The MAC-address is resolved from ethers(5). The IPv4 address is shown in CIDR nota‐
              tion (RFC 4632 address/prefix_len format). Since often those two values also determine the broadcast address (last 32 - prefix_len bits set  to
              1), that address is shown only if it does not derive from the interface address and prefix length. Likewise, the interface MTU is shown only if
              it differs from the default Ethernet MTU of 1500 bytes.

       Level histogram (F2 or 'l')
              This  is  a full-screen histogram plot showing the evolution of levels with time.  The screen is partitioned into a grid, with dBm levels shown
              in green at the right hand side (depending on configuration).  At the very minimum, the evolution of the signal-level is shown. If the wireless
              driver also supports noise-level information, additionally a noise graph and associated SNR graph appear.

       Scan window (F3 or 's')
              A periodically updated network scan, showing access points and other wireless clients. It is sorted depending on sort_order and sort_ascending,
              see wavemonrc(5).  Each entry starts with the ESSID, followed by the colour-coded MAC address and the signal/channel information.  A  green/red
              MAC address indicates an (un-)encrypted access point, the colour changes to yellow for non-access points (in this case the mode is shown at the
              end  of  the  line). The uncoloured information following the MAC address lists relative and absolute signal strengths, channel, frequency, and
              station-specific information.  The station-specific information includes the station type (ESS for Access Point, IBSS for Ad-Hoc network), sta‐
              tion count and channel utilisation.

              A status line at the bottom informs about the current sort order and a few statistics, such as most (least)  crowded  channels  (least  crowded
              channels are listed when sorting by descending channel).

              The  sort_order  can  also directly be changed via these keyboard shortcuts: ascending, descending; by essid, signal, channel (C also with sig‐
              nal), mac address, or by open access (O also with signal).

       Preferences (F7 or 'p')
              This screen allows you to change all program options such as interface and level scale parameters, and to save the new settings to the configu‐
              ration file. Select a parameter with <up> and <down>, then change the value with <left> and <right>. Please refer to wavemonrc(5)  for  an  in-
              depth description of applicable settings.

       Help (F8 or 'h')
              This page might show an online-help.

       About (F9 or 'a')
              Release information and contact URLs.

       Quit (F10 or 'q')
              Exit wavemon.

       Note: some operations, such as displaying encryption information or performing scans, require CAP_NET_ADMIN privileges (see capabilities(7)). For non-
       root users, these can be enabled by installing wavemon setuid-root.

OPTIONS
       -i interface
              override autodetection and use the specified interface.

       -g     check screen geometry: a minimum size is required for proper display; this flag adds a check to ensure it is sufficiently large. Enable this if
              window does not display properly.

       -h     print help and exit.

       -v     print version information and exit.

Troubleshooting
       wavemon  will  exit with 'no supported wireless interfaces found' if no usable wireless interfaces were detected. Check if your wireless interfaces is
       otherwise usable, using e.g. iw, iwconfig, or similar tools. The interface should appear in /proc/net/dev and, if wireless extensions  are  supported,
       also  in  /proc/net/wireless. If the interface does not appear, causes can be a missing (or not loaded) kernel module, or missing firmware, which some
       cards need to operate.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       LC_NUMERIC
              Influences the grouping of numbers if set. See also locale(1).

FILES
       $HOME/.wavemonrc
              The local per-user configuration file.

AUTHOR
       Written by Jan Morgenstern <jan@jm-music.de>.

REPORTING BUGS
       Open an issue on https://github.com/uoaerg/wavemon/issues.

COPYRIGHT
       This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY. See file COPYING for details.

SEE ALSO
       wavemonrc(5), wireless(7), ethers(5), locale(1), capabilities(7)

Linux                                                                   September 2016                                                             wavemon(1)
