WebDeploy(1)                                                                          WebDeploy - Deploy files via FTP                                                                         WebDeploy(1)

NAME
       webdeploy - Deploy local files to an ftp server.

SYNOPSIS
       webdeploy [options]

       Options:

       --exclude              Specify the name of the exclude file. (default: '.exclude')

       --globalexclude        Specify the name of the global exclude file. (default: '.globalexclude')

       --server               Specify the host name or address.

       --port                 Specify the port number for the connection. (default: 21)

       --server-root          Specify the root folder on the server where files should be uploaded.

       --user                 Specify the user name for login. (defaults to current user)

       --no-ftps  --no-tls    Disable Transport Layer Security (TLS) to use plain FTP instead of FTPS

       --dry-run              Print the list of local files that will be checked for upload, exit without uploading.

       --ftp-dry-run          Log in to the FTP server to check which local files are new or out of date, exit without uploading.

       --config               Specify configuration file (default: '.webdeploy_conf')

       --help                 brief help message

OPTIONS
       --exclude
           Specify the name of an exclude file. Before WebDeploy scans a directory for files to upload, it will read the exclude file.  Any directories listed in the exclude file will not be scanned, any
           other  file  in the directory that are listed in the exclude file will not be uploaded.  This happens in each directory that is scanned. An exclude file is uniqe to the directory.  All exclude
           files must have the same name however. By default, WebDeploy looks for a file called '.exclude'. If the file doesn't exist then nothing will be excluded.  See exclude files section  below  for
           more details.

       --globalexclude
           This  is  much  the  same  as  the normal exclude file.  The difference is that this file is only looked for in the root directory (where you ran webdeploy) and all exclusions in this file are
           applied to every directory scanned.  See exclude files section below for more details.

       --server-root
           This specifies the root directory on the server that will be used for upload.  Any files in your root working direct when you run webdeploy will be uploaded to this folder.  If  you  set  this
           option, make sure you specify a directory without a trailing slash.

           For example, if you want your files uploaded to '/var/www/' on the server, then use the option '--server-root /var/www'

       --dry-run
           Print the list of local files that will be checked for upload, exit without uploading.  This is useful for checking that you have set up the exclude files correctly.

       --ftp-dry-run
           Log in to the FTP server to check which local files are new or out of date on the server, exit without uploading.  This is useful for checking which files you have updated or created since the
           last deploy.  This also shows the directory on the server that will be used as the root directory for upload.  The root directory can be set with --server-root

       Note that all options can be specified using any unique abbreviation.  (--conf is the same as --config, however --ser is invalid because it is the start of --server and --server-root)

DESCRIPTION
       WebDeploy  will  upload  files  from  the current local directory to an FTP server.  Files are only uploaded if the local version is newer than the server version.  Files can be excluded using the
       'exclude' and 'globalexclue' options.

CONFIG FILES
       By default, WebDeploy will look for a file called .webdeploy_conf in the current directory. If this file is found then it will load the options from this file.  You can specify a different  config
       file on the command line using the --config option.

       All of the options that are available on the command line (except for the --config option) can be specified in a config file.

       A  config  file  must  consist  only  of  blank lines, comment lines (that start with a '#' symbol) and option lines (which are key-value-pairs).  Option lines take the form of 'KEY = VALUE'.  All
       characters after the first equals sign (sans leading and trailing blanks) are considered to be part of the value.  A value can therefore contain an equals sign without any special escaping.

       Note that no warnings will be issued if an option is specified on both the command line and the config file. In this case, the config file has priority.

       Also note that option names (keys) in configuration files cannot be abbreviated like command line options.

       Here is an example configuration file:

           # Server connection details
           server = ftp.example.com
           port   = 1234

           # Login user name
           user = daniel

           # Server's public html folder
           server-root = var/www

EXCLUDE FILES
       An exclude file will consist only of blank lines, comment lines (that start with a '#' symbol) and patterns to match files to exclude.

       To exclude a file called 'foo' you could use a config file like this:

           # Exclude the file 'foo'
           foo

       To exclude all files that end with '.foo' you can use a wildcard pattern like this:

           # Exclude all files with the foo extension.
           *.foo

       You can also match against a class of characters:

           # Exclude a.foo and b.foo but not c.foo
           [ab].foo

       To exclude a directory, simply name the directory without any leading or trailing slashes:

           # Exclude the 'src' directory
           src

       Gotcha: a directory could match a pattern you intended to only apply to regular files

EXAMPLES
       Upload files via a plain ftp connection to ftp.example.com, port 1234 as user 'user@example.com'

           webdeploy --server=ftp.example.com --user=user@example.com --port=1234 --no-tls

       See which files need uploading (have changed since the last upload) using the settings in 'my_config.conf'

           webdeploy --config my_config.conf --ftp-dry-run

       See what files will be uploaded (perhaps to test a .exclude rule)

           webdeploy --dry-run

LIMITATIONS
       WebDeploy currently doesn't support SFTP (FTP via SSH)

       WebDeploy can only be used for uploading content in the current directory. It is not possible to upload content from a different directory without first changing to that directory.

AUTHOR
       WebDeploy was written by Daniel Bailey

       Contact: info-d@nielbailey.com

REPORTING BUGS
       Please report bugs via email directly to Daniel Bailey using the email address: webdeploy-bug-d@nielbailey.com

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright 2015 Daniel Bailey

       License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.

       There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

Version 1.0                                                                                      2022-06-14                                                                                    WebDeploy(1)
