WESTON-DEBUG(1)                                                                             General Commands Manual                                                                             WESTON-DEBUG(1)

NAME
       weston-debug - a tool for getting debug messages from compositor.

SYNOPSIS
       weston-debug [options] [names]

DESCRIPTION
       weston-debug  is  a debugging tool which uses weston_debug_v1 interface to get the debug messages from the compositor. The debug messages are categorized into different debug streams by the compositor
       (example: logs, proto, list, etc.,) and the compositor requires a file descriptor to stream the messages.

       This tool accepts a file name or a file descriptor (not both) and any desired debug stream names from the user as command line arguments and subscribes the desired streams from the compositor by using
       the weston_debug_v1 interface. After the subscription, the compositor will start to write the debug messages to the shared file descriptor.

       If no file name or file descriptor argument is given, the tool will use the stdout file descriptor.

OPTIONS
       weston-debug accepts the following command line options.

       -h, --help
              Print the help text and exit with success.

       -l, --list
              List the available debug streams supported by the compositor. May be used together with --all or a list of debug stream names.

       -a, --all
              Bind all debug streams offered by the compositor. Mututally exclusive with explicitly specifying stream names.

       -o FILE, --output FILE
              Direct output to file named FILE. Use - for stdout.  Stdout is the default. Mutually exclusive with -f.

       -f FD, --outfd FD
              Direct output to the file descriptor FD.  Stdout (1) is the default. Mutually exclusive with -o.

       [names]
              A list of debug streams to bind to. Mutually exclusive with --all.

Weston 8.0.0                                                                                       2018-09-11                                                                                   WESTON-DEBUG(1)
