FTWHICH(1)                                                         General Commands Manual                                                         FTWHICH(1)

NAME
       ftwhich - fault tolerant search for a command name

SYNOPSIS
       ftwhich [-#hIp][-t#] program_name

DESCRIPTION
       ftwhich  is  a fault tolerant version of the which(1) command.  ftwhich searches for a given program in all directories included in your PATH environ‐
       ment variable and reports all files with a name that approximately matches the given program_name.

       ftwhich achieves  fault tolerance  by calculating the  so called Weighted Levenshtein Distance. The Levenshtein Distance is defined  as  the   minimum
       number of  character insertions, deletions and replacements that transform a string A into a string B.

       ftwhich is similar to the which command with the following differences:

       -      ftwhich is by default NOT case sensitive

       -      ftwhich is fault tolerant

       -      Some  shells  have  a  build  in which command that will also search aliases.  ftwhich can naturally not search for aliases as it does not know
              about alias definitions.

       -      ftwhich lists all files that approximately match. The files first shown take preference over files of the same name printed later as  they  are
              from directories listed earlier in the PATH.

       -      The level of fault tolerance can be adjusted by specifying the optional parameter tolerance.  A tolerance of 0 specifies exact match.

OPTIONS
       -h     Prints help/usage information.

       -I     Do case sensitive search (default is case in-sensitive)

       -p     print  the  actual  distance  value in front of the found filename. This value is equal to the number of insertions, deletions and replacements
              necessary to transform the name of the found program into the search key.

       -# or -t#
              Set the fault tolerance level to #.  The fault tolerance level is an integer in the range 0-255.  It specifies the  maximum  number  of  errors
              permitted in finding the approximate match. The default tolerance is (strlen(searchpattern) - number of wildcards)/6 + 1

       program_name
              The program file to search for.  '*' and '?'  can be used as wildcards.
              '?'  denotes one single character.
              '*' denotes an arbitrary number of characters.

       The  last  argument  to ftwhich is not parsed for options as the program needs at least one program_name argument. This means that ftwhich -x will not
       complain about a wrong option but search for the program named -x.

EXAMPLE
       Search for all programs like gcc in your PATH:
       ftwhich gcc
       This will e.g. find gcc or cc or CC ...

       To find all files that start with any prefix and end in config and differ in 2 letters from the word config:
       ftwhich -2 '*config'

       To find all files that exactly start with the prefix if:
       ftwhich -0 'if*'

       To find all clock programs:
       ftwhich -0 '*clock*'

BUGS
       The wildcards '?'  and '*' can not be escaped. These characters function always as wildcards. This is however not a big problem since  there  is  nor‐
       mally hardly any command that has these characters in its name.

AUTHOR
       Guido Socher (guido@linuxfocus.org)

SEE ALSO
       whichman(1), ftff(1)

Search utilities                                                         January 1999                                                              FTWHICH(1)
