WHY3(1)                                                                                        User Commands                                                                                        WHY3(1)

NAME
       Why3 - software verification platform

SYNOPSIS
       why3 [general options] <command> [command options] [command arguments]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page summarizes basic information about the why3 command.  Please refer to the Reference Manual for complete information.

       Why3  is  a platform for deductive program verification. It provides a rich language for specification and programming, called whyml, and relies on external theorem provers, both automated and in‐
       teractive, to discharge verification conditions. Why3 comes with a standard library of logical theories (integer and real arithmetic, Boolean operations, sets and maps, etc.) and basic programming
       data structures (arrays, queues, hash tables, etc.). A user can write whyml programs directly and get correct-by-construction OCaml programs through an automated  extraction  mechanism.  whyml  is
       also used as an intermediate language for the verification of C, Java, or Ada programs.

GENERAL OPTIONS
       -C <file>
              read configuration from <file>

       --config
              same as -C

       --extra-config <file> read additional configuration from <file>

       -L <dir>
              add <dir> to the library search path

       --library
              same as -L

       --debug <flag>
              set a debug flag

       --debug-all
              set all debug flags that do not change Why3 behaviour

       --list-debug-flags
              list known debug flags

       --list-transforms
              list known transformations

       --list-printers
              list known printers

       --list-provers
              list known provers

       --list-formats
              list known input formats

       --list-metas
              list known metas

       --print-libdir
              print location of binary components (plugins, etc)

       --print-datadir
              print location of non-binary data (theories, modules, etc)

       --version
              print version information

       -h     print this list of options

       --help same as -h

COMMANDS
       config creates a why3 configuration file ~/.why3.conf,
              containing  in  particular  information about available provers and plugins. If this file exists already, config will only reset unset variables to default value, but will not try to detect
              provers.

              The subcommand detect forces Why3 to detect again the available provers and to replace them in the configuration file.

              If a supported prover is installed under a name that is not automatically recognized by why3 config, the subcommand add-prover adds a specified binary to the configuration. For example,  an
              Alt-Ergo executable /home/me/bin/alt-ergo-trunk can be added as follows:

                why3 config add-prover alt-ergo /home/me/bin/alt-ergo-trunk

       doc    produces HTML pages from Why3 source code.

       execute
              symbolically executes programs written in the WhyML language

       extract
              extracts OCaml code from programs written in the WhyML language

       ide    launches the graphical user interface of the why3 platform.

              There  are  no specific command options. However, at least one command argument must be given. More precisely, the first argument must be the directory of the session. If the directory does
              not exist, it is created. The other arguments should be existing files that are going to be added to the session. For convenience, if there is only one argument, it can be an existing  file
              and in this case the session directory is obtained by removing the extension from the file name.

       prove  launches why3 in batch mode on a an input file

       realize
              produces skeleton files for proof assistants

       replay executes the proofs stored in a Why3 session file, as produced by the IDE.

       session

       wc     produces statistics about Why3 and WhyML source codes.

AUTHOR
       The information on this manpage was extracted from the complete Why3 reference manual.

SEE ALSO
       On  a  debian  system,  the  full  documentation  for  why3  is  distributed  in  PDF  and  HTML format in the packages why3-doc-html and why3-doc-pdf.  It is also available from the why3 homepage
       <http://why3.lri.fr>.

Why3 platform                                                                                    March 2016                                                                                         WHY3(1)
