DHCP6RELAY(8)                                                                              System Manager's Manual                                                                            DHCP6RELAY(8)

NAME
       dhcp6relay — DHCPv6 relay agent

SYNOPSIS
       dhcp6relay [-Ddf] [-b boundaddr] [-H hoplim] [-r relay-IF] [-s serveraddr] [-S script-file] [-p pid-file] interface ...

DESCRIPTION
       dhcp6relay acts as an intermediary to deliver DHCPv6 messages between clients and servers, and is on the same link as a client.  dhcp6relay needs command line arguments interface ..., which speci‐
       fies the list of links accommodating clients.

       Options supported by dhcp6relay are:

       -d      Print debugging messages.

       -D      Even more debugging information is printed.

       -f      Foreground  mode (useful when debugging).  Although dhcp6relay usually prints warning, debugging, or error messages to syslog(8), it prints the messages to standard error if this option is
               specified.

       -b boundaddr
               Specifies the source address to relay packets to servers (or other agents).

       -H hoplim
               Specifies the hop limit of DHCPv6 Solicit messages forwarded to servers.

       -r relay-IF
               Specifies the interface on which messages to servers are sent.  When omitted, the same interface as interface will be used.  When multiple interface are specified, this  option  cannot  be
               omitted.

       -s serveraddr
               Specifies the DHCPv6 server address to relay packets to.  If not specified, packets are relayed to ff05::1:3 (All DHCPv6 servers).

       -S script-file
               Specifies the script file to be executed when dhcp6relay receives a RELAY-REPLY message from a DHCPv6 server.  Further detail of the script file syntax is available in dhcp6c(8)

       -p pid-file
               Use pid-file to dump the process ID of dhcp6relay.

FILES
       /var/run/dhcp6relay.pid  is the default file that contains pid of the currently running dhcp6relay.

SEE ALSO
       dhcp6c(8), dhcp6s(8)

       Ralph Droms, Editor, Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6), RFC 3315, 2003.

HISTORY
       The dhcp6relay command first appeared in WIDE/KAME IPv6 protocol stack kit.

KAME                                                                                            Apr 18, 2000                                                                                  DHCP6RELAY(8)
