WIKI-TOOLKIT-REVERT-TO-DATE(1)                                                        User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                        WIKI-TOOLKIT-REVERT-TO-DATE(1)

NAME
       wiki-toolkit-revert-to-date - Revert the state of a Wiki::Toolkit instance to an earlier point in time.

SYNOPSIS
         # Removes any changes made to a Wiki::Toolkit instance since a given date
         #  (and optionally time), restoring it to the state at that point.

         wiki-toolkit-revert-to-date --type postgres
                  --name mywiki \
                  --user wiki  \
                  --pass wiki \
                  --host 'db.example.com' \
                  --port 1234 \
                  --date 2007-01-05 \
                  --time 11:23:21

DESCRIPTION
       Takes three mandatory arguments:

       type
           The database type.  Should be one of 'postgres', 'mysql' and 'sqlite'.

       name
           The database name.

       date
           The date to revert the state back to, in the format YYYY-MM-DD

       five optional arguments:

       time
           The time (on the specified date) to revert the state back to, in the format hh:mm:ss. If not specified, will use midnight.

       user
           The user that connects to the database. It must have permission to create and drop tables in the database.

       pass
           The user's database password.

       host
           The hostname of the machine the database server is running on (omit for local databases).

       port
           The port number that the database server is expecting connections to.

AUTHOR
       Nick Burch

COPYRIGHT
            Copyright (C) 2006 Nick Burch.  All Rights Reserved.

       This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
       Wiki::Toolkit

perl v5.34.0                                                                                       2021-07-23                                                                    WIKI-TOOLKIT-REVERT-TO-DATE(1)
