winregfs(8)                                                                               System Manager's Manual                                                                               winregfs(8)

NAME
       winregfs - Windows registry FUSE filesystem

SYNOPSIS
       mount.winregfs [fuse_options[,...]]  hivefile mountpoint

DESCRIPTION
       winregfs  is  a  FUSE-based filesystem driver that enables accessing of Windows registry hive files as ordinary filesystems. Registry hive file editing can be performed with ordinary shell scripts
       and command-line tools once mounted.

       Registry values are shown as files with a file extension corresponding to the data type of the value. These are generally named after the REG_* types seen in the Windows registry editor. For exam‐
       ple, dw is a DWORD, sz is a string, esz is an expanding string, bin is a raw binary value, and msz is a multi-line string. Types different from the "standard" types may appear in rare instances.

       Because registry keys and values can have forward slashes in their names, there is a special word _SLASH_ that is used in place of any real slashes and is converted back-and-forth automatically.

       Opening a value's name without the extension is supported, but you should always use the extension if possible to avoid ambiguity issues.

KNOWN ISSUES
       winregfs does not currently support writing value data greater than 8,192 bytes (8 KiB) in size. If such a write occurs, the data will be truncated and an error will be returned. Unicode  data  is
       not currently supported, partly due to a lack of support in the ntreg library.

       Incorrect  or  unrecognized structures in a registry file may cause this program to crash. It is not recommended for use on important data and while most operations generally work as expected, you
       use it at your own risk. Please report any bugs you encounter.

       winregfs loads the entire hive file into one large chunk of memory.  This is a side effect of adopting the low-level registry library from the program chntpw. There is a silent delay as  the  hive
       is  loaded  and  if  the  file is large enough there is a chance of failure due to being unable to allocate enough contiguous memory. Changing this behavior is a very difficult task due to how the
       ntreg library works with the data.

SEE ALSO
       fusermount(8), fsck.winregfs(8)

mount.winregfs                                                                                  10 Mar 2017                                                                                     winregfs(8)
