WMC(1)                                                                                       Wine Developers Manual                                                                                      WMC(1)

NAME
       wmc - Wine Message Compiler

SYNOPSIS
       wmc [options] [inputfile]

DESCRIPTION
       wmc  compiles  messages  from  inputfile into FormatMessage[AW] compatible format encapsulated in a resourcescript format.  wmc outputs the data either in a standard .bin formatted binary file, or can
       generated inline resource data.

       wmc takes only one inputfile as argument (see BUGS). The inputfile normally has extension .mc. The messages are read from standard input if no inputfile is given. If the outputfile  is  not  specified
       with -o, then wmc will write the output to inputfile.{rc,h}.  The outputfile is named wmc.tab.{rc,h} if no inputfile was given.

OPTIONS
       -c     Set 'custom-bit' in message-code values.

       -d     NON-FUNCTIONAL; Use decimal values in output

       -D     Set debug flag. This results is a parser trace and a lot of extra messages.

       -h, --help
              Print an informative usage message and exits.

       -H file
              Write headerfile to file. Default is inputfile.h.

       -i     Inline messagetable(s). This option skips the generation of all .bin files and writes all output into the .rc file. This encoding is parsable with wrc(1).

       --nls-dir=directory
              Specify the directory to search for the NLS files containing the codepage mapping tables.

       -o, --output=file
              Output to file. Default is inputfile.rc.

       -O, --output-format=format
              Set the output format. Supported formats are rc (the default), res, and pot.

       -P, --po-dir=directory
              Enable  the  generation  of resource translations based on po files loaded from the specified directory. That directory must follow the gettext convention, in particular in must contain one .po
              file for each language, and a LINGUAS file listing the available languages.

       -u     Assume that the input file is in Unicode or UTF-8 format and skip codepage conversions.

       -v     Show all supported codepages and languages.

       -V, --version
              Print version end exit.

       -W, --pedantic
              Enable pedantic warnings.

EXTENSIONS
       The original syntax is extended to support codepages more smoothly. Normally, codepages are based on the DOS codepage from the language setting. The original syntax only allows the  destination  code‐
       page to be set. However, this is not enough for non-DOS systems which do not use unicode source-files.

       A new keyword Codepages is introduced to set both input and output codepages to anything one wants for each language. The syntax is similar to the other constructs:

       Codepages '=' '(' language '=' cpin ':' cpout ... ')'

       The  language  is the numerical language-ID or the alias set with LanguageNames. The input codepage cpin and output codepage cpout are the numerical codepage IDs. There can be multiple mappings within
       the definition and the definition may occur more than once.

AUTHORS
       wmc was written by Bertho A. Stultiens.

BUGS
       The message compiler should be able to have multiple input files and combine them into one output file. This would enable the splitting of languages into separate files.

       Decimal output is completely lacking. Don't know whether it should be implemented because it is a, well, non-informative format change. It is recognized on the commandline for some form of compatibil‐
       ity.

       Bugs can be reported on the Wine bug tracker ⟨https://bugs.winehq.org⟩.

AVAILABILITY
       wmc is part of the Wine distribution, which is available through WineHQ, the Wine development headquarters ⟨https://www.winehq.org/⟩.

SEE ALSO
       wine(1), wrc(1),
       Wine documentation and support ⟨https://www.winehq.org/help⟩.

Wine 7.0-rc4                                                                                      October 2005                                                                                           WMC(1)
