wmgtemp(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                wmgtemp(1)

NAME
       wmgtemp - Temperature sensor dock app for Window Maker

SYNOPSIS
       wmgtemp [options]

DESCRIPTION
       wmgtemp is a dock-app for Window Maker that graphically displays the CPU and System temperatures using the lm_sensors package. It displays the CPU and System temperature values, a scaling graph of
       temperature history, high-temperature warning lights and temperatures in degrees Celsius, Fahrenheit or Kelvin.

       The  temperature  graph  is  auto  scaling,  meaning that if the max or min temperature boundary is crossed the graph will be scaled to display the temperature. A red line marks the upper boundary
       whereas a blue line indicates the lower boundary. When all the temperatures being displayed are within the boundaries the graph will be scaled back to the preset values for min/max and the  bound‐
       ary indicator lines will be removed.

       The  high  temperature warning lights located on the left of the temperature type indicators show amber or red when the warning or high temperatures are reached respectively. Normal operating tem‐
       perature is indicated by no light.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              display the usage information

       -s, --scale=SCALE
              show temperatures using SCALE temperature scale. SCALE=celcius, fahrenheit or kelvin.
              Default: celcius

       -S, --sensorconf=PATH
              specify the PATH to the lm_sensors config
              Default: /etc/sensors.conf

       -g, --graph=STYLE
              display graph as STYLE. STYLE=line or block.
              Default: line

       -H, --high=TEMP
              display red warning light at TEMP degrees celcius.
              Default: 50

       -w, --warn=TEMP
              display amber warning light at TEMP degrees celcius.
              Default: 45

       -u, --update=SEC
              update the display every SEC seconds.
              Default: 1

       -m, --min=TEMP
              set the lower bound of the graph to TEMP degrees celcius.
              Default: 20

       -M, --max=TEMP
              set the upper bound of the graph to TEMP degrees celcius.
              Default: 35

       -1, --feature1=F1
              set the feature for CPU
              Default: temp1

       -2, --feature2=F2
              set the feature for SYS
              Default: temp2

       -c, --chip=CHIP
              specify the chip sensor to use
              Default: auto

       -a, --execat=TEMP
              execute a command at TEMP degrees celcius.
              Default: none

       -e, --exec=COMMAND
              execute COMMAND when the 'execat' temperature is reached.
              Default: none

       -t, --swap
              swap/transpose temperature values

       -q, --quiet
              Don't display any messages

FILES
       ~/.wmgtemprc   User configuration.

       The format of this file is:

              # wmgtemp example config
              scale:celcius
              graph:line
              high:50
              warn:45
              update:1
              min:25
              max:35
              execat:80
              exec:shutdown -h 10
              swap:n
              quiet:y
              feature1:temp1
              feature2:temp2

USAGE
   Graph
       You can cycle through the graph types by clicking on the graph display area.

   High Temperature Toggle
       You can toggle the displaying of high temperatures by click on the temperature for the corrosponding temperature. The viewing of high temperatures is indicated by an amber arrow to the left of the
       temperature. The current temperatures will continue to be displayed on the graph.

   Temperature display TOGGLE
       You may toggle the displaying of a temperature on the graph by clicking on the corrosponding type. e.g To toggle the display of the CPU temperature click on CPU. The type indicator  (CPU  or  SYS)
       will disappear and the temperature will not be displayed on the graph, although the temperature value will continue to be displayed.

   Temperature Scale Cycling
       You may change the scale the temperatures are displayed in by clicking on either of the CPU or SYS scale indicators. The cycle order is C -> K -> F

BUGS
       Blank lines in the config file cause a Segmentation Fault.

SEE ALSO
       sensors.conf(5), libsensors(3), wmaker(1x)

AUTHOR
       wmgtemp was written by Roger Dunce <kronos@fluxcode.net>

                                                                                               February 2001                                                                                     wmgtemp(1)
