XWORDGRINDER(1)                                                                Simple word processor for writing first drafts                                                               XWORDGRINDER(1)

NAME
       xwordgrinder - Xlib-based word processor

SYNOPSIS
       wordgrinder [options] [filename]

DESCRIPTION
       xwordgrinder is a simple character cell word processor that runs on X11. It is primarily designed for text entry. It's designed to get the hell out of your way and let you write; it does very lit‐
       tle, but what it does it does well.

       It  supports Unicode, basic paragraph styles, basic character styles, basic screen markup, a menu interface that means you don't have to remember complex key sequences, HTML import and export, and
       some other useful features.

       When running, pressing ESC (or ALT + menu shortcut key) will open the menu.

OPTIONS
       These options follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes (`-').

       -h, --help
              Show summary of options.

       --lua filename
              Loads and executes a Lua file instead of starting normally.

       --convert srcfile destfile
              Converts from srcfile to destfile and then exits.

              The type of the file is autodetected from the extension of the filename. The source file may have a document name suffixed with a : for use when importing or exporting WordGrinder files.

       --config file.lua
              Sets the name of the user config file.

CONFIGURATION
       The user config file is a Lua file which is loaded and executed before the program starts up. It defaults to:

       ~/.wordgrinder/startup.lua

AUTHOR
       wordgrinder was written by David Given.
       http://cowlark.com/wordgrinder

0.8                                                                                                                                                                                         XWORDGRINDER(1)
