GRIND(1)                                                                                   WordNet™ User Commands                                                                                  GRIND(1)

NAME
       grind - process WordNet lexicographer files

SYNOPSIS
       grind [ -v ] [ -s ] [ -Llogfile ] [ -a ] [ -d ] [ -i ] [ -o ] [ -n ] filename [ filename... ]

DESCRIPTION
       grind()  processes WordNet lexicographer files, producing database files suitable for use with the WordNet search and interface code and other applications.  The syntactic and structural integrity
       of the input files is verified.  Warnings and errors are reported via stderr and a run-time log is produced on stdout.  A database is generated only if there are no errors.

   Input Files
       Input files correspond to the syntactic categories implemented in WordNet - noun, verb, adjective and adverb.  Each input lexicographer file consists of a list of synonym sets  (synsets)  for  one
       part  of  speech.  Although the basic synset syntax is the same for all of the parts of speech, some parts of the syntax only apply to a particular part of speech.  See wninput(5WN) for a descrip‐
       tion of the input file format.

       Each filename specified is of the form:

              pathname/pos.suffix

       where pathname is optional and pos is either noun, verb, adj or adv.  suffix may be used to separate groups of synsets into different files, for example noun.animal and noun.plant.   One  or  more
       input files, in any combination of syntactic categories, may be specified.  See lexnames(5WN) for a list of the lexicographer files used to build the complete WordNet database.

   Output Files
       grind() produces the following output files:

                                                                            ┌─────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┐
                                                                            │  Filename   │              Description               │
                                                                            ├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────┤
                                                                            │ index.pos   │ Index file for each syntactic category │
                                                                            │ data.pos    │ Data file for each syntactic category  │
                                                                            │ index.sense │ Sense index                            │
                                                                            └─────────────┴────────────────────────────────────────┘

       See wndb(5WN) for a description of the database file formats.

       Each  time grind() is run, any existing database files are overwritten with the database files generated from the specified input files.  If no input files from a syntactic category are specified,
       the corresponding database files are not overwritten.

   Sense Numbers
       Senses are generally ordered from most to least frequently used, with the most common sense numbered 1.  Frequency of use is determined by the number of times a sense is tagged in the various  se‐
       mantic concordance texts.  Senses that are not semantically tagged follow the ordered senses in an arbitrary order.  Note that this ordering is only an estimate based on usage in a small corpus.

       The tagsense_cnt field for each entry in the index.pos files indicates how many of the senses in the list have been tagged.

       The cntlist file provided with the database lists the number of times each sense is tagged in the semantic concordances.  grind() uses the data from cntlist to order the senses of each word.  When
       the  index.pos  files are generated, the synset_offsets are output in sense number order, with sense 1 first in the list.  Senses with the same number of semantic tags are assigned unique but con‐
       secutive sense numbers.  The WordNet OVERVIEW search displays all senses of the specified word, in all syntactic categories, and indicates which of the senses are represented in  the  semantically
       tagged texts.

OPTIONS
       -v             Verify integrity of input without generating database.

       -s             Suppress generation of warning messages.  Usually grind is run with this option until all syntactic and structural errors are corrected since the warning messages may make it diffi‐
                      cult to spot error messages.

       -Llogfile      Write all messages to logfile instead of stderr.

       -a             Generate statistical report on input files processed.

       -d             Generate distribution of senses by string length report on input files processed.

       -i             Generate sense index file.

       -o             Order senses using cntlist.

       -n             Generate nominalization (derivational morphology) links in database.

       filename       Input file of the form described in Input Files.

FILES
       pos.*               lexicographer files to use to build database

       cntlist             file of combined semantic concordance cntlist files.  Used to assign sense numbers in WordNet database

SEE ALSO
       cntlist(5WN), lexnames(5WN), senseidx(5WN), wndb(5WN), wninput(5WN), uniqbeg(7WN), wngloss(7WN).

DIAGNOSTICS
       Exit status is normally 0.  Exit status is -1 if non-specific error occurs.  If syntactic or structural errors exist, exit status is number of errors detected.

       usage: grind [-v] [-s] [-Llogfile] [-a ] [-d] [-i] [-o] [-n] filename [filename...]
              Invalid options were specified on the command line.

       No input files processed.
              None of the filenames specified were of the appropriate form.

       n syntactic errors found.
              Syntax errors were found while parsing the input files.

       n structural errors found.
              Pointer errors were found that could not be automatically corrected.

BUGS
       Please report bugs to wordnet@princeton.edu.

WordNet 3.0                                                                                       Dec 2006                                                                                         GRIND(1)
