WNDB(5WN)                                                                                  WordNet™ File Formats                                                                                  WNDB(5WN)

NAME
       index.noun, data.noun, index.verb, data.verb, index.adj, data.adj, index.adv, data.adv - WordNet database files

       noun.exc, verb.exc. adj.exc adv.exc - morphology exception lists

       sentidx.vrb, sents.vrb - files used by search code to display sentences illustrating the use of some specific verbs

DESCRIPTION
       For  each  syntactic category, two files are needed to represent the contents of the WordNet database - index.pos and data.pos, where pos is noun, verb, adj and adv.  The other auxiliary files are
       used by the WordNet library's searching functions and are needed to run the various WordNet browsers.

       Each index file is an alphabetized list of all the words found in WordNet in the corresponding part of speech.  On each line, following the word, is a list of byte offsets (synset_offsets) in  the
       corresponding data file, one for each synset containing the word.  Words in the index file are in lower case only, regardless of how they were entered in the lexicographer files.  This folds vari‐
       ous orthographic representations of the word into one line enabling database searches to be case insensitive.  See wninput(5WN) for a detailed description of the lexicographer files

       A  data  file  for a syntactic category contains information corresponding to the synsets that were specified in the lexicographer files, with relational pointers resolved to synset_offsets.  Each
       line corresponds to a synset.  Pointers are followed and hierarchies traversed by moving from one synset to another via the synset_offsets.

       The exception list files, pos.exc, are used to help the morphological processor find base forms from irregular inflections.

       The files sentidx.vrb and sents.vrb contain sentences illustrating the use of specific senses of some verbs.  These files are used by the searching software in response to a request for verb  sen‐
       tence frames.  Generic sentence frames are displayed when an illustrative sentence is not present.

       The  various database files are in ASCII formats that are easily read by both humans and machines.  All fields, unless otherwise noted, are separated by one space character, and all lines are ter‐
       minated by a newline character.  Fields enclosed in italicized square brackets may not be present.

       See wngloss(7WN) for a glossary of WordNet terminology and a discussion of the database's content and logical organization.

   Index File Format
       Each index file begins with several lines containing a copyright notice, version number and license agreement.  These lines all begin with two spaces and the line number so they do  not  interfere
       with the binary search algorithm that is used to look up entries in the index files.  All other lines are in the following format.  In the field descriptions, number always refers to a decimal in‐
       teger unless otherwise defined.

       lemma  pos  synset_cnt  p_cnt  [ptr_symbol...]  sense_cnt  tagsense_cnt   synset_offset  [synset_offset...]

       lemma          lower case ASCII text of word or collocation.  Collocations are formed by joining individual words with an underscore (_) character.

       pos            Syntactic category: n for noun files, v for verb files, a for adjective files, r for adverb files.

       All remaining fields are with respect to senses of lemma in pos.

       synset_cnt     Number of synsets that lemma is in.  This is the number of senses of the word in WordNet. See Sense Numbers below for a discussion of how sense numbers are assigned and the order of
                      synset_offsets in the index files.

       p_cnt          Number of different pointers that lemma has in all synsets containing it.

       ptr_symbol     A space separated list of p_cnt different types of pointers that lemma has in all synsets containing it. See wninput(5WN) for a list of pointer_symbols.  If all senses of lemma have
                      no pointers, this field is omitted and p_cnt is 0.

       sense_cnt      Same as sense_cnt above.  This is redundant, but the field was preserved for compatibility reasons.

       tagsense_cnt   Number of senses of lemma that are ranked according to their frequency of occurrence in semantic concordance texts.

       synset_offset  Byte  offset in data.pos file of a synset containing lemma.  Each synset_offset in the list corresponds to a different sense of lemma in WordNet.  synset_offset is an 8 digit, zero-
                      filled decimal integer that can be used with fseek(3) to read a synset from the data file.  When passed to read_synset(3WN) along with the syntactic category, a data structure  con‐
                      taining the parsed synset is returned.

   Data File Format
       Each  data  file  begins with several lines containing a copyright notice, version number and license agreement.  These lines all begin with two spaces and the line number.  All other lines are in
       the following format.  Integer fields are of fixed length, and are zero-filled.

       synset_offset  lex_filenum  ss_type  w_cnt  word  lex_id  [word  lex_id...]  p_cnt  [ptr...]  [frames...]  |  gloss

       synset_offset  Current byte offset in the file represented as an 8 digit decimal integer.

       lex_filenum    Two digit decimal integer corresponding to the lexicographer file name containing the synset.  See lexnames(5WN) for the list of filenames and their corresponding numbers.

       ss_type        One character code indicating the synset type:

                      n    NOUN
                      v    VERB
                      a    ADJECTIVE
                      s    ADJECTIVE SATELLITE
                      r    ADVERB

       w_cnt          Two digit hexadecimal integer indicating the number of words in the synset.

       word           ASCII form of a word as entered in the synset by the lexicographer, with spaces replaced by underscore characters (_).  The text of the word is case sensitive, in  contrast  to  its
                      form in the corresponding index.pos file, that contains only lower-case forms.  In data.adj, a word is followed by a syntactic marker if one was specified in the lexicographer file.
                      A syntactic marker is appended, in parentheses, onto word without any intervening spaces.  See wninput(5WN) for a list of the syntactic markers for adjectives.

       lex_id         One  digit  hexadecimal integer that, when appended onto lemma, uniquely identifies a sense within a lexicographer file.  lex_id numbers usually start with 0, and are incremented as
                      additional senses of the word are added to the same file, although there is no requirement that the numbers be consecutive or begin with 0.  Note that a value of 0 is  the  default,
                      and therefore is not present in lexicographer files.

       p_cnt          Three digit decimal integer indicating the number of pointers from this synset to other synsets.  If p_cnt is 000 the synset has no pointers.

       ptr            A pointer from this synset to another.  ptr is of the form:

                      pointer_symbol  synset_offset  pos  source/target

                      where synset_offset is the byte offset of the target synset in the data file corresponding to pos.

                      The  source/target  field  distinguishes  lexical and semantic pointers.  It is a four byte field, containing two two-digit hexadecimal integers.  The first two digits indicates the
                      word number in the current (source) synset, the last two digits indicate the word number in the target synset.  A value of 0000 means that pointer_symbol represents a semantic rela‐
                      tion between the current (source) synset and the target synset indicated by synset_offset.

                      A lexical relation between two words in different synsets is represented by non-zero values in the source and target word numbers.  The first and last two bytes of this field  indi‐
                      cate  the  word  numbers  in  the  source and target synsets, respectively, between which the relation holds.  Word numbers are assigned to the word fields in a synset, from left to
                      right, beginning with 1.

                      See wninput(5WN) for a list of pointer_symbols, and semantic and lexical pointer classifications.

       frames         In data.verb only, a list of numbers corresponding to the generic verb sentence frames for words in the synset.  frames is of the form:

                      f_cnt   +   f_num  w_num  [ +   f_num  w_num...]

                      where f_cnt a two digit decimal integer indicating the number of generic frames listed, f_num is a two digit decimal integer frame number, and w_num is a two digit hexadecimal inte‐
                      ger indicating the word in the synset that the frame applies to.  As with pointers, if this number is 00, f_num applies to all words in the synset.  If non-zero,  it  is  applicable
                      only  to the word indicated.  Word numbers are assigned as described for pointers.  Each f_num  w_num pair is preceded by a +.  See wninput(5WN) for the text of the generic sentence
                      frames.

       gloss          Each synset contains a gloss.  A gloss is represented as a vertical bar (|), followed by a text string that continues until the end of the line.  The gloss may contain a definition,
                      one or more example sentences, or both.

   Sense Numbers
       Senses in WordNet are generally ordered from most to least frequently used, with the most common sense numbered 1.  Frequency of use is determined by the number of times a sense is tagged  in  the
       various  semantic  concordance  texts.   Senses  that are not semantically tagged follow the ordered senses.  The tagsense_cnt field for each entry in the index.pos files indicates how many of the
       senses in the list have been tagged.

       The cntlist(5WN) file provided with the database lists the number of times each sense is tagged in the semantic concordances.  The data from cntlist is used by grind(1WN) to order  the  senses  of
       each  word.  When the index.pos files are generated, the synset_offsets are output in sense number order, with sense 1 first in the list.  Senses with the same number of semantic tags are assigned
       unique but consecutive sense numbers.  The WordNet OVERVIEW search displays all senses of the specified word, in all syntactic categories, and indicates which of the senses are represented in  the
       semantically tagged texts.

   Exception List File Format
       Exception  lists are alphabetized lists of inflected forms of words and their base forms.  The first field of each line is an inflected form, followed by a space separated list of one or more base
       forms of the word.  There is one exception list file for each syntactic category.

       Note that the noun and verb exception lists were automatically generated from a machine-readable dictionary, and contain many words that are not in WordNet.  Also, for many of the inflected forms,
       base forms could be easily derived using the standard rules of detachment programmed into Morphy (See morph(7WN)).  These anomalies are allowed to remain in the exception list files, as they do no
       harm.

   Verb Example Sentences
       For some verb senses, example sentences illustrating the use of the verb sense can be displayed.  Each line of the file sentidx.vrb contains a sense_key followed by a space and a  comma  separated
       list of example sentence template numbers, in decimal.  The file sents.vrb lists all of the example sentence templates.  Each line begins with the template number followed by a space.  The rest of
       the  line is the text of a template example sentence, with %s used as a placeholder in the text for the verb.  Both files are sorted alphabetically so that the sense_key and template sentence num‐
       ber can be used as indices, via binsrch(3WN), into the appropriate file.

       When a request for FRAMES is made, the WordNet search code looks for the sense in sentidx.vrb.  If found, the sentence template(s) listed is retrieved from sents.vrb, and the %s is  replaced  with
       the verb.  If the sense is not found, the applicable generic sentence frame(s) listed in frames is displayed.

NOTES
       Information  in  the  data.pos  and index.pos files represents all of the word senses and synsets in the WordNet database.  The word, lex_id, and lex_filenum fields together uniquely identify each
       word sense in WordNet.  These can be encoded in a sense_key as described in senseidx(5WN).  Each synset in the database can be uniquely identified by combining the  synset_offset  for  the  synset
       with a code for the syntactic category (since it is possible for synsets in different data.pos files to have the same synset_offset).

       The  WordNet system provide both command line and window-based browser interfaces to the database.  Both interfaces utilize a common library of search and morphology code.  The source code for the
       library and interfaces is included in the WordNet package.  See wnintro(3WN) for an overview of the WordNet source code.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES (UNIX)
       WNHOME              Base directory for WordNet.  Default is /usr/local/WordNet-3.0.

       WNSEARCHDIR         Directory in which the WordNet database has been installed.  Default is WNHOME/dict.

REGISTRY (WINDOWS)
       HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\WordNet\3.0\WNHome
                           Base directory for WordNet.  Default is C:\Program Files\WordNet\3.0.

FILES
       index.pos           database index files

       data.pos            database data files

       *.vrb               files of sentences illustrating the use of verbs

       pos.exc             morphology exception lists

SEE ALSO
       grind(1WN), wn(1WN), wnb(1WN), wnintro(3WN), binsrch(3WN), wnintro(5WN), cntlist(5WN), lexnames(5WN), senseidx(5WN), wninput(5WN), morphy(7WN), wngloss(7WN), wngroups(7WN), wnstats(7WN).

WordNet 3.0                                                                                       Dec 2006                                                                                        WNDB(5WN)
