wput(1)                                                                                 Internet Applications - FTP                                                                                 wput(1)

NAME
       wput - A wget-like ftp-uploader

SYNOPSIS
       wput [options] file [file ...] URL

DESCRIPTION
       Wput is a free utility that is able to upload files to a ftp-server.

       Wput is non-interactive and background-capable. It can upload files or whole directories and is meant to be a robust client even for unstable connections and will therefore retry to upload a file,
       if the connection broke.

       Wput  supports resuming, so it automatically continues uploading from the point where the previous upload stopped, meaning that you can kill Wput anytime and it will (if the remote ftp-server sup‐
       ports this, being most likely the case) finish the partial uploaded file.

       Wput supports connections through proxies, allowing you to use it in an environment that can access the internet only via a proxy or to provide anonymity by hiding your ip-address to  the  server.
       For SOCKSv5-proxies Wput supports also listening mode, allowing you to use port-mode ftp through a proxy (useful if the remote ftp is behind a firewall or a gateway).

       Wput supports timestamping, so it will (in the ideal case and if timestamping is enabled) only upload files, that are newer than the remote-file.

       The upload-rate of Wput can be restricted, so that Wput won't eat all available bandwidth.

   URL-Input-Handling
       URLs are recognized by the ftp://-prefix

       Wput  first  reads  the URLs from command-line, and associates the first file with the first URL, the second file with the second URL etc.  It then transmits the file/URL combinations that are al‐
       ready complete.  Afterwards, Wput uses the --input-file (if any) and reads the URLs using the same sheme as above.  In situations where more URLs than files are specified, Wput tries to guess  the
       local filename from the URL.  In case there are more files that URLs remaining, Wput uses the last known URL for each of the files.

       So you can specify e.g. one URL and read all filenames from a file.  Or use wput *.txt ftp://host, to transfer all *.txt-files.  See doc/USAGE.examples for further examples.

       To be on the safe side, it is recommended to supply the files before the URLs.

   Guessing Local File
       If  Wput has an URL without a corresponding filename, Wput tries to guess the local file's location. e.g. using wput ftp://host/directory/path/file, Wput will look out for /directory/path/file. If
       not found, Wput looks for ./directory/path/file, ./path/file and ./file.

OPTIONS
   Logging and Input File Options
       -a logfile, --append-output=logfile
              Append all logged messages to logfile.

       --basename=path
              This option causes Wput to snip path from all input-files when they are connected to the URL. wput /usr/share/doc.tgz ftp://host/ would create ftp://host//usr/share/doc.tgz, whereas  speci‐
              fying /usr/share/ as basename will result in ftp://host/doc.tgz being created.

       -i file, --input-file=file
              Reads URLs and filenames from file. If there are URLs on the command-line too, these will be retrieved first, unless sorting is enabled.  See also the URL-Input-Handling section.

              If  file  is  -, the URLs will be read from stdin.  If you want to pipe the contents of the file that shall be uploaded to stdin, this cannot be done (yet). But you can use the --input-pipe
              flag and read the contents a) from a named pipe -I "cat named.pipe; echo > /dev/null" or b) directly from the command, that outputs the data. (See --input-pipe)

              Do not do things like find | wput ftp://host/ -i -!  Wput would upload all files from the current directory (since the first output of find will be  '.')  and  afterwards  each  file  again
              (since find postes its name to Wput. And further problematic is that Wput will upload each directory that is given by find and since find itself recurses all directories, the files would be
              uploaded  three times (or even more often for further subdirectories).  Use wput ftp://host/ to upload everything from the local directory.  Or use find ! -type d | wput ftp://host/ -i - to
              tell find, not to output directories.

       -I command, --input-pipe=command
              If no file/directory can be "guessed" (see "Guessing Local File") from the URL, the output of command is taken as file-input. command is invoked as follows:

                     command ftp "username" "ip/hostname" port "remote_directory" "remote_filename"

              The hostname is only supplied if the ip cannot be resolved.  If you do not want these parameters to confuse the program from which you read the contents, use something like '-I  "cat  file;
              echo  >  /dev/null"'  so  that these parameters are passed to echo and to /dev/null afterwards.  Since the progressbar is not capable of handling unknown filesizes, the filesize is set to 1
              GiB. Therefore the ETA shows a wrong value.

       -nv, --less-verbose
              Be less verbose. That means reducing Wput's output to a minimum. Specifying this flag more often is equal to the --quiet flag.  Some people also like combining the -v and -nv  flags,  being
              quite senseless.

       -o logfile, --output-file=logfile
              Log all messages to logfile.

       -q, --quiet
              Turn off Wput's output.

       -R, --remove-source-files
              Unlinks/deletes files that have been successfully transmitted.

       -s, --sort
              If sorting is enabled Wput first reads all URLs from any input-devices available and will sort them before transmitting each file.

              The sorting order is: ip/hostname, port, username, password, directory, filename.  Sorting requires a bit more memory since all data needs to be held there.

       -v, --verbose
              Turn on verbose output. This gives some more information about what Wput does. If you specify this flag twice, you get debug output.

   Upload Options
       -A, --ascii
              Wput  automatically  determines  which  transfer-format to use, by looking at the file-extensions. Certain files are recognized as ASCII. These are: txt, c, java, cpp, sh, f, f90, f77, f95,
              bas, pro, csh, ksh, conf, htm, html, php, pl, cgi, ing, js, asp, bat, cfm, css, dhtml, diz, h, hpp, ini, mak, nfo, shtml, shtm, tcl, pas

              Specifying this flag forces Wput to use ASCII mode file transfers.

       -b, --background
              Go to background immediately after startup.  If no output file is given, wput will redirect its output to "./wputlog"

       -B, --binary
              Specifying this flag forces Wput to use BINARY mode file transfers.

       --bind-address=address
              When making client TCP/IP connections, bind() to address to address on the local machine. address may br specified as a hostname or IP address. This option can be useful if your machine  is
              bound  to  multiple  IPs.  --force-tls If this flag is specified and Wput is linked with the OpenSSL-library, the flag enforces the usage of TLS: If no TLS-connection can be established the
              process will cancel and not try to go on with an unencrypted connection.

   Basic Startup Options
       -l rate, --limit-rate=rate
              If you don't want Wput to eat up all available bandwidth, specify this flag.  rate is a numeric value. The units 'K' (for KiB) and 'M' (for MiB) are understood.

              The upload rate is limited on average, meaning that if you limit the rate to 10K and Wput was just able to send with 5K for the first seconds, it will send  (if  possible)  afterwards  more
              than 10K until the average rate of 10K is fulfilled.

       -m, --chmod
              This will change the access mode of the transferred files. The format is the three-digit octal unix mode, e.g. 644 means rw-r--r--.

       -nc, --dont-continue
              If  this flag is specified, resuming will be turned off, meaning that a remote file being smaller than the local one will be overwritten. To skip this file, you have to enable --skip-exist‐
              ing.

              See also doc/USAGE.resumehandling

       -N, --timestamping
              If timestamping is enabled, Wput will retrieve a directory list and parse it to determine the remote file-date. If the local file is newer than the remote one (there is  a  default  allowed
              timevariance of 5 seconds, which can be adjusted in the wputrc-file) it is uploaded, otherwise skipped.

              The local date is dermined by the mtime (time of last modification), using the current time-zone. This should be equal to the output of ls -l.

              Since you usually do not want to resume existing files, you should employ the --reupload --dont-continue flags as well.

       -p, --port-mode
              Per default, Wput uses passive mode ftp, which works well for most configurations. If passive mode fails, Wput automatically falls back to port mode.

              If you want Wput to start using port mode ftp, specify this flag.

       --proxy=mode
              Alias is option -Y. The mode can be either http for http-based proxies (such as SQUID), socks for SOCKSv5 proxies or off to disable the proxy.

       --proxy-user=name
              If the proxy-server requires authentication, use NAME as user-name.  You need to specify --proxy-pass too. These information can also be stored in the wputrc-file.

       --proxy-pass=password
              Specifies the password to use for the proxy.

   FTP Options
       --no-directories
              If Wput is unable to CWD into a directory, it will try to create it. If this is not the desired behaviour specify this flag to force Wput not to create any directories.

       -t number, --tries=number
              Set number of retries to number. Specify -1 for infinite retrying, which is default, too.

       -u, --reupload
              If this flag is specified, a remote file having the same size as the local one is to be uploaded. Skipping is default.

       --skip-larger
              If this flag is specified, a remote file being larger than the local one will be skipped. Default is reuploading it.

       --skip-existing
              If this flag is specified, the upload of a file will be skipped if the remote file already exists.

   General options
       -V, --version
              Display the version of wput.

       -h, --help
              Print a help screen, with a short description of wput's command-line options.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Normally, the exit status is 0 if either everything went fine or there was nothing to do.  If some files were skipped during the upload (due to timestamping or resume-rules) the exit status is set
       to  1.  If  some  files failed to be transmitted due to an remote error, exit status is 2. If some files failed and some others were skipped, exit status is 3. For general problems like failure of
       some system-functions the exit status is 4.

BUGS
       You are welcome to send bug reports and suggestions about Wput through the Sourceforge Bugtracking System: http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=141519

       Please send all available information that might concern this bug (e.g.  Operating System and what can be done to reproduce the error). Supply also the debug-output (but remove  confidential  data
       if any), which helps a lot analysing the problem. If you use a wputrc file, it might also be useful to provide the relevant parts of it.

       If  there  is a crash due to a segfault or similar, try to run it in a debugger, e.g. gdb /usr/bin/wput core and type where to get the backtrace. It would also be great help if you could recompile
       wput with memory-debugging support (make clean; make memdbg; [make install]) and use this debug-dump.

SEE ALSO
       Many options can be set in a wputrc file. For its documentation consult the sample file provided by Wput.  There are some USAGE.* files in the doc/ directory of Wput. These contain further  infor‐
       mation and samples on how to use Wput.

AUTHOR
       Wput is written by Hagen Fritsch <fritsch+wput-man@in.tum.de>

Hagen Fritsch                                                                                      0.6.2                                                                                            wput(1)
