WSDL2AWS(1)                    AWS User's Guide                    WSDL2AWS(1)

NAME
       wsdl2aws - Generate stubs and skeletons for web services

SYNOPSIS
       wsdl2aws [options] URL

DESCRIPTION
       The  Ada  Web Server is a library that allows you to embed a web server
       into your Ada application.  It provides not only HTTP  but  also  SOAP,
       WSDL and several other facilities.  Thus you can write full-fledged web
       applications.

       WSDL (Web Service Definition Language) is  a  language  based  on  XML.
       WSDL  documents  describe,  in  a formal way, the interface to Web Ser‐
       vices. This description consists of the end-point (URL  to  the  server
       offering the service), the SOAPAction (needed to call the remote proce‐
       dure), the procedure names and a description of the  input  and  output
       parameters.

       Using  wsdl2aws,  you  can create both the client and server sides of a
       Web Service.  On both sides, the generated code handles marshalling and
       unmarshalling  of  parameters  and return values, so you do not have to
       deal with SOAP directly.

       The client side is an Ada package that contains stubs  for  the  remote
       subprograms declared by the WSDL document.  These stubs call the remote
       subprograms using SOAP.

       The server side is another package consisting of  skeleton  implementa‐
       tions of these subprograms.

       The URL points to the WSDL document to be processed.

OPTIONS
       -a     Generate  using  Ada style names. For example `getPrice' will be
              converted to `Get_Price'. This formatting is done for  packages,
              routines and formal parameters.

       -cb    Generate a SOAP dispatcher callback routine for the server. This
              dispatcher routine contains the code to handle  all  the  opera‐
              tions  as described in the WSDL document. You need also to spec‐
              ify the -types option, see below.

       -cvs   Add CVS id tag in every generated file.

       -doc   Handle document style binding as RPC  ones.  This  is  sometimes
              needed  because  some  WSDL  documents  specify a document style
              binding even though it is really an RPC one.

       -f     Force creation of the file. Overwrite any exiting files with the
              same name.

       -main filename
              Specify  the name of the server's procedure main to generate. If
              file filename.amt (Ada Main Template) is present, it  uses  this
              template  file  to generate the main procedure. The template can
              reference the following variable tags:

              SOAP_SERVICE
                     The name of the service as described into the WSDL  docu‐
                     ment. This tag can be used to include the right units

                                with @_SOAP_SERVICE_@.Client;
                                with @_SOAP_SERVICE_@.CB;

              SOAP_VERSION
                     The AWS SOAP version.

              BAWS_VERSION
                     The AWS version.

              UNIT_NAME
                     The  name  of the generated unit. This is the name of the
                     procedure that will be created.

                          procedure @_UNIT_NAME_@ is
                          begin
                             ...

       -noskel
              Do not generate skeletons, only stubs.

       -nostub
              Do not generate stubs, only skeletons.

       -o name
              Specify the name of the local WSDL document. This option can  be
              used only when using a Web WSDL document (i.e. passing an URL to
              wsdl2aws).

       -pp password
              User password for the proxy if proxy authentication required.

       -proxy nameIP
              Use this proxy to access the WSDL document and generate code  to
              access  to  these  Web Services via this proxy. The proxy can be
              specified by its DNS name or IP address.

       -pu name
              User name for the proxy if proxy authentication required.

       -q     Quiet mode (no output).

       -s     Skip non supported SOAP routines.  By  default,  wsdl2aws  exits
              with  an  error  when  a problem is found while parsing the WSDL
              document. This option is useful to skip routines using non  sup‐
              ported types and still be able to compile the generated files.

       -types spec
              Specify  the  name of the spec containing the Ada implementation
              of the SOAP routines. This is used for example by the -cb option
              above  to instantiate all the server side SOAP callbacks used by
              the main SOAP dispatcher routine.

       -v     Verbose mode, display the parsed spec.

       -v -v  Verbose mode, display the parsed spec and  lots  of  information
              while parsing the WSDL document.

       -wsdl  Add WSDL document as comment into the generated root unit.

SEE ALSO
       ada2wsdl(1), awsres(1)

       The Ada Web Server User's Guide in package aws-doc.

AUTHOR
       wsdl2aws  was  written  by  Dmitriy Anisimkov <anisimkov@yahoo.com> and
       Pascal Obry <p.obry@wanadoo.fr> as part of the Ada Web Server.

       This manual page was  written  by  Ludovic  Brenta  <ludovic.brenta@in‐
       salien.org> for Debian GNU/Linux.

       adopted by Pavel Zhukov <landgraf@fedoraproject.org> for Fedora Project

GNU Ada Tools                     11 JUN 2004                      WSDL2AWS(1)
