wsdl(1)                     General Commands Manual                    wsdl(1)

NAME
       wsdl - Mono's Web Service Proxy Generator

SYNOPSIS
       wsdl [options] [path | url]

DESCRIPTION
       wsdl  is a tool for generating proxy classes that can be used to access
       to web services.  The tool reads a WSDL document from the provided path
       or  url,  and  downloads  referenced schemas or other WSDL documents if
       needed.

       This tool is used to target the 1.x API, for targetting  the  2.x  API,
       please use the wsdl2 tool.

OPTIONS
       The following options are available:

       -appsettingurlkey:key -urlkey:key
              Specifies  that the url for the services should be read from the
              <appsettings> section of the configuration file, using the  pro‐
              vided key.

       -appsettingbaseurl:url , -baseurl:url
              Specifies a base URL for the service. The final URL will be con‐
              structed by combining this value with  the  URL  read  from  the
              -appsettingurlkey  option, and the -type:typename, assembly Gen‐
              erate a proxy for a compiled web service class. The URL  parame‐
              ter can be used to providethe location of the service.  location
              attribute specified in the WSDL document.

       -language:language , -l
              Language of the code to generate. It can be CS for C# (default),
              Boo for Boo and VB for Visual.Basic.

       Alternatively you can specify a full type name for a CodeProvider, for
              example,  you  could use this to generate code for the imaginary
              "MyLan" language which has the following full type:
                   wsdl myservice.wsdl -language:MyLan.MyLanCodeProvider, MyLan.CodeDom, Version=1.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=xxyy'

       -namespace:name , -n:name
              The namespace of the generated classes. If  none  is  specified,
              the default namespace is used.

       -out:filename , -o:filename
              The target file for generated code.

       -protocol:protocol , -p:protocol
              The  protocol  for  which  to  generate  code.  It  can  be Soap
              (default), HttpGet or HttpPost.

       -sample:METHOD
              This will display XML request and reply of  the  sample  invoca‐
              tions  to  that SOAP message.  You can use the -protocol: option
              to render the message in different forms.

       -server
              Generate a server skeleton instead of a client proxy.

       -nologo
              Supress the startup logo.

       -u:username , -user:username
              The user name to use when connecting to the server.

       -p:password , -password:password
              The password to use when connecting to the server.

       -d:domain , -domain:domain
              The domain to use when connecting to the server.

AUTHORS
       Lluis Sanchez Gual (lluis@ximian.com)

LICENSE
       wsdl is released under the terms of the GNU GPL.

SEE ALSO
       disco(1), soapsuds(1), mono(1), mcs(1), wsdl2(1)

                                                                       wsdl(1)
