WUMP(6)                        BSD Games Manual                        WUMP(6)

NAME
     wump — hunt the wumpus in an underground cave

SYNOPSIS
     wump [-h] [-a arrows] [-b bats] [-p pits] [-r rooms] [-t tunnels]

DESCRIPTION
     The game wump is based on a fantasy game first presented in the pages of
     People's Computer Company in 1973.  In Hunt the Wumpus you are placed in
     a cave built of many different rooms, all interconnected by tunnels.
     Your quest is to find and shoot the evil Wumpus that resides elsewhere in
     the cave without running into any pits or using up your limited supply of
     arrows.

     The options are as follows:

     -a      Specifies the number of magic arrows the adventurer gets.  The
             default is five.

     -b      Specifies the number of rooms in the cave which contain bats.
             The default is three.

     -h      Play the hard version -- more pits, more bats, and a generally
             more dangerous cave.

     -p      Specifies the number of rooms in the cave which contain bottom‐
             less pits.  The default is three.

     -r      Specifies the number of rooms in the cave.  The default cave size
             is twenty-five rooms.

     -t      Specifies the number of tunnels connecting each room in the cave
             to another room.  Beware, too many tunnels in a small cave can
             easily cause it to collapse!  The default cave room has three
             tunnels to other rooms.

     While wandering through the cave you'll notice that, while there are tun‐
     nels everywhere, there are some mysterious quirks to the cave topology,
     including some tunnels that go from one room to another, but not neces‐
     sarily back!  Also, most pesky of all are the rooms that are home to
     large numbers of bats, which, upon being disturbed, will en masse grab
     you and move you to another portion of the cave (including those housing
     bottomless pits, sure death for unwary explorers).

     Fortunately, you're not going into the cave without any weapons or tools,
     and in fact your biggest aids are your senses; you can often smell the
     rather odiferous Wumpus up to two rooms away, and you can always feel the
     drafts created by the occasional bottomless pit and hear the rustle of
     the bats in caves they might be sleeping within.

     To kill the wumpus, you'll need to shoot it with one of your magic ar‐
     rows.  Fortunately, you don't have to be in the same room as the crea‐
     ture, and can instead shoot the arrow from as far as three or four rooms
     away!

     When you shoot an arrow, you do so by typing in a list of rooms that
     you'd like it to travel to.  If at any point in its travels it cannot
     find a tunnel to the room you specify from the room it's in, it will in‐
     stead randomly fly down one of the tunnels, possibly, if you're real un‐
     lucky, even flying back into the room you're in and hitting you!

BSD                              May 31, 1993                              BSD
