
X11TRACE(1)                                                                                         X11TRACE                                                                                        X11TRACE(1)

NAME
       x11trace - trace communication between X11 client and server

SYNOPSIS
       x11trace [ options ] [ -s | -k ] [ [ -W ] [ -- ] command args ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       x11trace  fakes an X server and forwards all connections to a real X server, displaying the communication between clients in (well, theoretically) human readable form.  If a command is given, x11trace
       executes the named command with $DISPLAY set to the faked X server. If that command exits before any connections are made, x11trace exits immediately unless -W is specified.

OPTIONS
       -I directory
              Look into directory for protocol description files.  (i.e. the directory where the .proto files can be found).

       -s | --stopwhendone (default)
              Terminate when all forwarded clients have disconnected.  (Or when a program was run once the program has finished and all connections are closed).

       -k | --keeprunning
              If all clients disconnected, wait for new ones to connect.

       -W | --waitforclient
              Do not stop when the started program terminates before any connection was made.  (Might be necessary if the program forks to background).

       -d name | --display name
              Forward connections to the X server specified by name instead of the one specified by the environment variable DISPLAY.

       -D name | --fakedisplay name
              Fake display name instead of $FAKEDISPLAY or :9 respectively.

       -f filename | --authfile filename
              Add an -f filename to the arguments for all calls to xauth to get the authentication tokens of the X server to connect to.

       -F filename | --newauthfile filename
              Add an -f filename to the arguments for all calls to xauth to save the authentication tokens to connect to the faked X server.

       -c | --copyauthentication (default)
              Copy the authentication tokens for the X server to connect to so that clients connecting to our fake server will use them.

              The commands run are roughly equivalent to: xauth add $FAKEDISPLAY . `xauth list $DISPLAY | awk '$2=="MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1" {print $3}'`

              Not that only MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1 tokens are copied as x11trace does not yet support to change the authentication tokens so that XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1 would be possible.

       -n | --nocopyauthentication
              Do not call xauth and do fiddle with authentication tokens but leave that to the user to handle.

       -e | --denyextensions
              Modify all server replies to say there are no extensions available.  (As x11trace does supports only a small number of extensions anyway and  calls  all  extended  requests  "unknown"  and  all
              replies to such requests "unexpected").

       -w | --readwritedebug
              Print how many bytes are read and/or written when.

       -m count | --maxklistlength count
              Print only the first count many elements of all lists.

       -i | --interactive
              Only  sent  requests from the client to the server after interactive confirmation.  Confirmation is given by pressing enter or a number followed by enter via stdin.  This can give funny results
              when multiple clients are tunneled.

       -o | --outfile filename
              Dump output into filename instead of stdout.

       -b | --buffered
              Do not write every line on its own but wait until buffers are full.  Speeds up things a little bit when outputting to a file.  Not very useful at all together with -i.

       --timestamps
              Print a timestamp before each line.

              Note that the time a packet is printed is between the time a packet is received and the time a packet is sent, but it gives no other information than that.

       --relative-timestamps
              Print a timestamp relative to the beginning of the connection before each line.

              Note that the time a packet is printed is between the time a packet is received and the time a packet is sent, but it gives no other information than that.

       --monotonic-timestamps
              Print a CLOCK_MONOTONIC (see clock_gettime(3)) timestamp each time a package is printed.  This is likely to be the uptime of your system.

              Note that the time a packet is printed is between the time a packet is received and the time a packet is sent, but it gives no other information than that.

       --print-offsets
              Print offsets of all fields (useful to debug nested lists in protocol descriptions)

       --print-counts
              Print counts (useful to debug lists in protocol descriptions)

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       DISPLAY
              Without --display the content of this variable is used to determine the server to connect to. (And without -n given to xauth to get the authentication tokens for this display.)

       FAKEDISPLAY
              Without --fakedisplay the content of this variable is used to determine how to listen for clients. (And without -n given to xauth to set the authentication tokens for this display.)  If neither
              is given, x11trace will try :9

       XAUTHORITY
              Without  -n and without -f or -F your xauth program will most likely look into this variable for the file to get/save the authentication tokens from/into. If this is not set it will most likely
              use $HOME/.Xauthority.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <brlink@debian.org> or the Debian BTS.

SEE ALSO
       xauth(1), x(7x),

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2005 Bernhard R. Link
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

x11trace                                                                                          26 June 2009                                                                                      X11TRACE(1)
