GP-DISPLAY-SRC(1)                                                           User Commands                                                          GP-DISPLAY-SRC(1)

NAME
       gp-display-src - display the source code, optionally interleaved with the disassembly of the target object

SYNOPSIS
       gprofng display src [OPTION(S)] TARGET-OBJECT

DESCRIPTION
       Display  the source code listing, or source code interleaved with disassembly code, as extracted from the target object (an executable, shared object, object
       file, or a Java .class file).

OPTIONS
       --version
              print the version number and exit.

       --help print usage information and exit.

       --verbose {on|off}
              enable (on) or disable (off) verbose mode; the default is "off".

       -func  list all the functions from the given object.

       -source item tag
              show the source code for item; the tag is used to differentiate in case of multiple occurences with the same name; the combination of "all -1" selects
              all the functions in the object; the default is "-source all -1".

       -disasm item tag
              show the source code, interleaved with the disassembled instructions; the same definitions for item and tag apply.

       -outfile <filename>
              write  results to file <filename>; a dash (-) writes to stdout; this is also the default; note that this only affects options included to the right of
              this option.

DOCUMENTATION
       A getting started guide for gprofng is maintained as a Texinfo manual. If the info and gprofng programs are properly installed  at  your  site,  the  command
       "info gprofng" should give you access to this document.

SEE ALSO
       gprofng(1), gp-archive(1), gp-collect-app(1), gp-display-html(1), gp-display-text(1)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2021 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

GNU gp-display-src binutils version 2.39                                    October 2022                                                           GP-DISPLAY-SRC(1)
