xautolock(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                              xautolock(1)

NAME
       xautolock - fire up programs in case of user inactivity under X

VERSION
       This man page applies to xautolock version 2.2.

SYNOPSIS
       xautolock [-help]  [-version]  [-time  mins] [-locker locker] [-killtime killmins] [-killer killer] [-notify margin] [-notifier notifier] [-bell percent] [-corners xxxx] [-cornerdelay secs] [-cor‐
                 nerredelay altsecs] [-cornersize pixels] [-secure] [-resetsaver] [-nocloseout] [-nocloseerr] [-noclose] [-disable] [-enable] [-toggle] [-exit] [-locknow] [-unlocknow] [-nowlocker locker]
                 [-restart] [-detectsleep]

DESCRIPTION
       Xautolock monitors the user activity on an X Window display. If none is detected within mins minutes, a program is started as specified by the -locker option. Xautolock will typically be  used  to
       lock  the  screen (hence its primary name) but it really doesn't care what program you make it start. For this reason, xautolock does not interfere with the default X screen saver, unless the -re‐
       setsaver option is used.  This implies that it is the job of the locker or the user to take the appropriate actions if the default screen saver is to be disabled.  The only real assumption made by
       xautolock is that a new countdown starts as soon as the locker exits.

       In the presence of the -notify option, a warning signal will be issued margin seconds before starting the locker. Warning signals come in two kinds:

       •  You can use the -notifier option to specify the command to be issued to perform notification.

       •  Alternatively, you can let xautolock ring the bell. In this case, the -bell option specifies the loudness of the signal in percent, as described in the XBell man page.

       You can tell xautolock to take special actions when you move the mouse into one of the corners of the display and leave it there, by using the -corners, -cornerdelay, -cornerredelay  and  -corner‐
       size options. This works as follows:

       The  xxxx  argument  to the -corners option must consist of exactly 4 characters from the following set: '0', '+', '-'. Each one of these specifies what xautolock should do when the mouse enters a
       small square area located in each of the corners of the screen. The corners are considered in the following order: top left, top right, bottom left, bottom right.  A '0' indicates  that  xautolock
       should  ignore  the  corner. A '+' indicates that xautolock should start the locker after secs or altsecs seconds (see below for the difference between both), unless the mouse is moved or keyboard
       input is received. A '-' indicates that xautolock should not start the locker at all. The pixels argument specifies the size in pixels of the corner areas.

       Most users of the -corners option want the locker to activate within a very short time interval after they move the mouse into a '+' corner.  This can be achieved by specifying a small  value  for
       the  -cornerdelay  option.  However, if the mouse is subsequently left where it is, xautolock will almost immediately start a new locker right after the user quits the current one. To prevent this
       from happening, the -cornerredelay option can be used to specify the time-out interval to be used if and only if the mouse is sitting in a `+' corner and has not  been  moved  since  the  previous
       locker exited.

       A  running  xautolock  process  can  be  disabled  (unless if the -secure option has been specified), in which case it will not attempt to start the locker. To disable an already running xautolock
       process, use the -disable option. To re-enable it, use -enable. To toggle it between both states, use -toggle. Using this method is preferable to using sending it SIGSTOP and SIGCONT signals,  be‐
       cause while disabled xautolock will still be emptying its event queue.

       A running xautolock process can also be told to exit (unless if the -secure option has been specified). To do this, use the -exit option.

       The -killtime and -killer options allow, amongst other things, to implement an additional automatic logout, on top of the automatic screen locking. In the presence of one or both of these options,
       a  secondary  timeout will be triggered killmins after starting the locker (unless user activity is detected in the mean time).  Upon expiration of this secondary timer, the killer program is run.
       Note that, despite the name of the options, xautolock really doesn't care what the killer does in reality. If it doesn't (indirectly) cause xautolock to get killed, and assuming that no  user  ac‐
       tivity is detected, the secondary trigger will periodically expire every killmins minutes for as long as the locker runs.

       In  combination  with  -killtime and -killer, the -secure option allows system administrators to enforce xautolock as a part of their security procedures, and to prevent people from locking shared
       displays for an excessive amount of time. One way to achieve this is to start xautolock (using -secure and optionally -killtime and -killer) from within XDM's Xsession file in such a way that  the
       session automatically ends if xautolock itself is killed.

       By  default  xautolock  closes stdout and stderr. This prevents the locker from writing error messages to these files in case you manually lock your display.  The -nocloseout, -nocloseerr and -no‐
       close options cause xautolock to not close stdout and/or stderr. On some platforms users of xnlock will need to use -nocloseout, in order to make xnlock's witty sayings show up. These options  can
       also be used for debugging cases in which locker invocation is not successful.

       Xautolock is capable of managing multi-headed displays.

OPTIONS
       -help           Print a help message and exit.

       -version        Print the version number and exit.

       -time           Specifies the primary timeout interval. The default is 10 minutes, the minimum is 1 minute.

       -locker         Specifies  the locker to be used. The default is xlock. Notice that if locker contains multiple words, it must be specified between quotes.  In order to use your PATH to locate the
                       program, xautolock feeds the locker command to /bin/sh, so it should be understandable for whatever shell your /bin/sh is. Because this typically is a  Bourne  shell,  ~  expansion
                       most likely will not work.

       -killtime       Specifies the secondary timeout in minutes after starting the locker.  This timer is only active as long as the locker is running, and is reset each time user activity is detected.
                       If it expires before the locker exits, the killer command is run. The default is 20 minutes, the minimum is 10 minutes.  This option is only useful in conjunction with -killer.

       -killer         Specifies  the  killer to be used. The default is none. Notice that if killer contains multiple words, it must be specified between quotes.  In order to use your PATH to locate the
                       program, xautolock feeds the killr command to /bin/sh, so it should be understandable for whatever shell your /bin/sh is. Because this typically is a Bourne shell, ~ expansion most
                       likely will not work.

       -notify         Warn the user margin seconds before locking. The default is to not warn the user. If used in conjunction with -cornerdelay or -cornerredelay, the notification margin iused  is  the
                       minimum of margin, secs and/or altsecs.

       -notifier       Specifies  the  notifier to be used. The default is none. This option is only useful in conjunction with -notify. Notice that if notifier contains multiple words, it must be speci‐
                       fied between quotes.  In order to use your PATH to locate the program, xautolock feeds the notifier command to /bin/sh, so it should  be  understandable  for  whatever  shell  your
                       /bin/sh is. Because this typically is a Bourne shell, ~ expansion most likely will not work.

       -bell           Specifies the loudness of the notification signal in the absence of the -notifier option. The default is 40 percent. This option is only useful in conjunction with -notify.

       -corners        Define special actions to be taken when the mouse enters one of the corners of the display. The default is 0000, which means that no special action is taken.

       -cornerdelay    Specifies the number of seconds to wait before reacting to the mouse entering a '+' corner. The default is 5 seconds.

       -cornerredelay  Specifies the number of seconds to wait before reacting again if the current locker exits while the mouse is sitting in a '+' corner. The default is for altsecs to equal secs.

       -cornersize     Specifies the size in pixels of the corner areas. The default is 10 pixels.

       -resetsaver     Causes xautolock to reset the X screen saver after successfully starting the locker. This is typically used in case the locker is not really intended to lock the screen, but to re‐
                       place  the  default  X screen saver. Note that the default screen saver is not disabled, only reset.  Also note that using -resetsaver will inferfere with the DPMS monitors, as the
                       power down time out will also be also reset. The default is not to reset the screen saver.

                       See the xset man page for more information about managing the X screen saver.

       -detectsleep    Instructs xautolock to detect that computer has been put to sleep.  This is done by detecting that time has jumped by more than 3 seconds.  When this occurs, the lock timer is  re‐
                       set  and  locker  program  is not launched even if primary timeout has been reached. This  option is typically used to prevent the locker program from being launched when awaking a
                       laptop computer.

       -secure         Instructs xautolock to run in secure mode. In this mode, xautolock becomes imune to the effects of -enable, -disable, -toggle, and -exit. The default is to honour these actions.

       -nocloseout     Don't close stdout.

       -nocloseerr     Don't close stderr.

       -noclose        Close neither stdout nor stderr.

       -disable        Disables an already running xautolock process (if there is one, and it does not have -secure switched on). In any case, the current invocation of xautolock exits.

       -enable         Enables an already running xautolock process (if there is one, and it does not have -secure switched on). In any case, the current invocation of xautolock exits.

       -toggle         Toggles an already running xautolock process (if there is one, and it does not have -secure switched on) between its disabled and enabled modes of operation. In any case, the  cur‐
                       rent invocation of xautolock exits.

       -exit           Causes an already running xautolock process (if there is one, and it does not have -secure switched on) to exit. In any case, the current invocation of xautolock also exits.

       -locknow        Causes  an already running xautolock process (if there is one, if it does not have -secure switched on, and is not currently disabled) to lock the display immediately. In any case,
                       the current invocation of xautolock exits.

       -unlocknow      Causes an already running xautolock process (if there is one, if it does not have -secure switched on, and is not currently disabled) to unlock the  display  immediately  (if  it's
                       locked) by sending the locker a SIGTERM signal. In any case, the current invocation of xautolock exits.

       -nowlocker      Specifies the locker to be used if the lock is initiated with -locknow option. The default is to use the locker program given with -locker option, which defaults to xlock.

       -restart        Causes an already running xautolock process (if there is one and it does not have -secure switched on) to restart. In any case, the current invocation of xautolock exits.

RESOURCES
       time            Specifies the primary timeout. Numerical.

       locker          Specifies the locker. No quotes are needed, even if the locker command contains multiple words.

       killtime        Specifies the secondary timeout. Numerical.

       killer          Specifies the killer. No quotes are needed, even if the killer command contains multiple words.

       notify          Specifies the notification margin. Numerical.

       notifier        Specifies the notifier. No quotes are needed, even if the notifier command contains multiple words.

       bell            Specifies the notification loudness. Numerical.

       corners         Specifies the corner behaviour, as explained above.

       cornersize      Specifies the size of the corner areas. Numerical.

       cornerdelay     Specifies the delay of a '+' corner. Numerical.

       cornerredelay   Specifies the alternative delay of a '+' corner. Numerical.

       resetsaver      Reset the default X screen saver. Boolean.

       nocloseout      Don't close stdout. Boolean.

       nocloseerr      Don't close stderr. Boolean.

       noclose         Close neither stdout nor stderr. Boolean.

       Resources  can  be  specified  in  your ~/.Xresources or ~/.Xdefaults file (whichever your system uses) and merged via the xrdb(1) command. They can be specified either for class Xautolock, or for
       whatever name your xautolock program has been given. This can be useful in case xautolock is to be used for other purposes than simply locking the screen. For example: if you have  two  copies  of
       xautolock, one called "xmonitor", and one called "xlogout", then both will honour the following:

              Xautolock.corners: ++++

       In addition, "xmonitor" will honour:

              xmonitor.cornersize: 10

       while "xlogout" will honour:

              xlogout.cornersize: 5

       Each command line option takes precedence over the corresponding (default) resource specification.

KNOWN BUGS
       The -disable, -enable, -toggle, -exit, -locknow, -unlocknow, and -restart options depend on access to the X server to do their work. This implies that they will be suspended in case some other ap‐
       plication has grabbed the server all for itself.

       If,  when  creating a window, an application waits for more than 30 seconds before selecting KeyPress events on non-leaf windows, xautolock may interfere with the event propagation mechanism. This
       effect is theoretical and has never been observed in real life. It can only occur in case xautolock has been compiled without support for both the Xidle and the MIT ScreenSaver extensions,  or  in
       case the X server does not support these extensions.

       xautolock  does not always properly handle the secure keyboard mode of terminal emulators like xterm, since that mode will prevent xautolock from noticing the keyboard events occurring on the ter‐
       minal. Therefore, xautolock sometimes thinks that there is no keyboard activity while in reality there is. This can only occur in case xautolock has been compiled without support for both the  Xi‐
       dle and the MIT ScreenSaver extensions, or in case the X server does not support these extensions.

       xautolock does not check whether notifier and/or locker are available.

       The xautolock resources have dummy resource classes.

SEE ALSO
       X(1), xset(1), xlock(1), xnlock(1), xscreensaver(1).

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 1990, 1992-1999, 2001-2002, 2004, 2007 by Stefan De Troch and Michel Eyckmans.

       Versions 2.0 and above of xautolock are available under version 2 of the GNU GPL. Earlier versions are available under other conditions. For more information, see the License file.

AUTHORS
       Xautolock was conceived, written, and performed by:

       Michel Eyckmans (MCE)
       Stefan De Troch

       Please send queries for help, feature suggestions, bug reports, etc.  to mce@scarlet.be.

SPECIAL THANKS TO
       Kris Croes

                                                                                             December 28, 2007                                                                                 xautolock(1)
