XBATTBAR(1)                                                         General Commands Manual                                                       XBATTBAR(1)

NAME
       xbattbar — show battery status in X Window

SYNOPSIS
       xbattbar [-options] [position]

DESCRIPTION
       xbattbar shows the current (laptop) battery status in the X window environment as a simple bar indicator.

       The battery status can be obtained through:
       •   APM kernel module (default)
       •   ACPI (option -c )
       •   sysfs (option -r )
       •   external script (option -s )

       The following options are available:

       -a      Keep the indicator window always on top of other windows.

       -t thickness
               Set the thickness of the indicator in pixels.  The default is 3 pixels.

       -p interval
               Set the polling interval in seconds.  The default is 10 seconds.

       -I color
               Set the color for the charging indicator (AC online).

       -O color
               Set the color for the charging indicator background (AC online).

       -i color
               Set the color for the battery level indicator (AC offline).

       -o color
               Set the color for the battery level indicator background (AC offline).

       -c      Use ACPI instead of APM to obtain battery status.

       -r      Use  sysfs  to  obtain battery status.  This option requires a sysfs battery checker script (thanks to Elena Grandi <elena.valhalla@gmail.com>
               for the script).

       -x num  Enable Xinerama support and place the indicator on screen num (counting from 0).  You must specify this option even for  screen  0  to  enable
               Xinerama.  If not specified, Xinerama is not used.

       -s script-name
               Use an external script to check battery status.  The script must print two lines to STDOUT:

               battery=value

               ac_line=on|off

   Position
       The position argument specifies where to place the indicator on the display:

       TOP     Place the indicator at the top of the display.

       BOTTOM  Place the indicator at the bottom of the display (default).

       LEFT    Place the indicator at the left side of the display.

       RIGHT   Place the indicator at the right side of the display.

       When  the  mouse  cursor enters the status indicator, a diagnosis window appears in the center of the display, showing both AC line status and battery
       remaining level.  The window disappears when the mouse cursor leaves the indicator.

EXAMPLES
       xbattbar -c -t 2 -a LEFT
               Show battery status using ACPI, with thickness 2 pixels, always on top, placed on the left side of the display.

       xbattbar -c -x 0
               Show battery status using ACPI on Xinerama screen 0.  The indicator appears at the bottom of the screen (default position).

       xbattbar -c -x 0 LEFT
               Show battery status using ACPI on Xinerama screen 0, placed on the left side of the display.

AUTHOR
       Suguru Yamaguchi <suguru@wide.ad.jp>, Akira Kato <kato@wide.ad.jp>, Noriyuki Shigechika <nazo@wide.ad.jp>, Dmitry E. Oboukhov  <unera@debian.org>,  E.
       Kask <E.Kask@posteo.de>

Debian                                                                 December 5, 1998                                                           XBATTBAR(1)
