xdesktopwaves(1)                                                                          General Commands Manual                                                                          xdesktopwaves(1)

NAME
       xdesktopwaves - simulation of water waves on the X Windows desktop

SYNOPSIS
       xdesktopwaves [option]...

DESCRIPTION
       xdesktopwaves  is  a  cellular  automata setting the background of your X Windows desktop under water.  Windows and mouse are like ships on the sea.  Each movement of these ends up in moving water
       waves.  You can even have rain and/or storm stirring up the water (-rain 0-10, -storm 0-10).

       In shaped mode, which is enabled by default, xdesktopwaves usually works good together with other desktop background programs like xfishtank, xpenguins, xsnow and xearth.  They are all  under  wa‐
       ter.

       xdesktopwaves  has  many options.  The most important ones are -quality 0-9 and -colortheme 0-9.  The first one is for adjusting the balance between display quality and system load.  And the other
       option is for selecting a set of colors for visualization.  Choose a color theme suitable for your background picture.  There are even options for fine-tuning.

       Window Managers

       If you are using the KDE window manager, please enable "Allow programs in desktop window" in the KDE desktop configuration (right-click on the desktop and choose "Configure  Desktop").   Otherwise
       xdesktopwaves  may  not  be  visible.  If you are using Enlightenment 0.16 with "Multiple Desktops" instead of "Virtual Desktops", xdesktopwaves appears always on the first desktop.  A solution is
       -wmbackdrop, but read the comments on that option.  With most other window managers xdesktopwaves should work without difficulties.  If not, try -root, -wmbackdrop or -window, and/or -opaque.

       If supported by the window manager, you should decide to enable opaque moving and resizing of windows ("display content in moving windows" or something like that), instead  of  displaying  just  a
       frame.   This  may  result in very dynamic wave effects - try to pile up a big wave by moving a window slowly.  But: unfortunately some window managers seem to be very CPU-intensive while moving a
       window opaque.  In that case xdesktopwaves does not perform very smooth.

       Starting and stopping

       For a first try, open a shell and type xdesktopwaves followed by desired options.  Example:

              xdesktopwaves -quality 4 -colortheme 3

       Just press CTRL-C for stopping.

       Now, if you want to create menu entries in your desktop environment, window manager or wherever: For starting, create an entry containing a command like the example above.  And for stopping,  cre‐
       ate an entry containing this command:

              xdesktopwaves -end

       Hint: Whenever xdesktopwaves is starting, it automatically tells other instances of xdesktopwaves to terminate.  So there cannot be more than one instance.

       xdesktopwaves every day?

       Depending  on  the quality settings, xdesktopwaves can be very CPU-intensive.  To get along with this, the program goes into an idle mode if there are no waves on the water or if the output window
       is obscured. The cellular automata stops computing in that mode.  Additionally, you can give a lower priority to the xdesktopwaves process (see -nice).

       If you want to have xdesktopwaves automatically started when starting X Windows, insert the start command in the file $HOME/.xinitrc (see startx(1)).  But don't forget to append & to the  command.
       This way, xdesktopwaves is started before the window manager (may or may not work, depending on the type of window manager).

GENERAL OPTIONS
       -h or -help
              Print a short help and exit.

       -V or -version
              Print version and exit.

       -v or -verbose
              Print some information about what's going on.

       -vv or -veryverbose
              Print much information (for debugging).

       -d name or -display name
              Connect to the display named name.

       -e or -end
              Exit after terminating a possibly already existing instance of xdesktopwaves.

WINDOW CREATION OPTIONS
       -r or -root
              Do not create any window, draw the waves to the (virtual) root window.  This option implies -stippled if not -opaque.

       -b or -backdrop (default)
              Create an override-redirect backdrop window on the (virtual) root window.

       -wmb or -wmbackdrop
              Create a backdrop window using the extended window manager hints.  This is not supported by every window manager.  And if it is, there's still the problem that it may not be possible to ac‐
              tivate icons or menus on the desktop background (possibly just at every second scan-line in shaped mode).

       -w or -window
              Create an ordinary normal window.  For some window managers you'll even have to give -opaque.

TRANSPARENCY OPTIONS
       -o or -opaque
              Have no transparency at all.

       -t or -stippled
              Have  faked  transparency.  This lets the desktop background picture shine through.  Other desktop background programs and desktop icons may not be visible.  The window of xdesktopwaves in‐
              herits the background from the root window, and the waves are drawn in stippled mode.  This option implies -nodoublebuffer.

       -s or -shaped (default)
              Have better transparency.  Everything behind xdesktopwaves shines through.  The window of xdesktopwaves is shaped by every second scan-line, using the XShape extension.  This option is  ig‐
              nored if -root, otherwise this option implies -doublebuffer.

       -wmo percent or -wmopacity percent
              Have  best  transparency.   This  is still highly experimental!  It sets the window property _NET_WM_WINDOW_OPACITY, which is a hint for the window manager respectively composite manager to
              render the window with alpha blending.  This option is ignored if -root.

PERFORMANCE OPTIONS
       -q number or -quality number (default: 5)
              Set overall quality of the waves.  number can be 0 to 9.  The higher the quality, the higher the CPU/network load.  This option is a comfortable alternative for  -framerate,  -simsperframe,
              -eventsperframe, -resdivision, -cellsize and -maxcolors.

       -fr rate or -framerate rate
              Set maximum frame rate in hertz.  This option is overridden by -quality.

       -sf count or -simsperframe count
              Set number of simulation steps per frame.  Hereby you can adapt the speed of the waves.  This option is overridden by -quality.

       -ef count or -eventsperframe count
              Set  number  of  event  processings  per frame.  This can improve the trails of fast moving objects (mouse and windows), but it can even incur a sensible higher CPU load, because of a worse
              cache utilization.  Maximum is the number of simulation steps per frame.  This option is overridden by -quality.

       -rd rdx rdy or -resdivision rdx rdy
              Set overall division of resolution in x and y direction.  These values have dramatic influence on the CPU usage on both sides, the client and the  server.   This  option  is  overridden  by
              -quality.

       -cs cw ch or -cellsize cw ch
              Set width and height of the cells of water.  These values have dramatic influence on the CPU usage on the client side.  The water surface is made of rectangular cells.  This is a kind of an
              image, where each pixel is a cell.  For each frame, that image is scaled up to the screen size in two steps.  In the first step it is scaled by (cw, ch) with bi-linear interpolation, and in
              the second step it is scaled by (rdx, rdy) without interpolation.  This option is overridden by -quality.

       -mc count or -maxcolors count
              Set  maximum  number  of  colors  for  drawing the waves.  The higher the color count, the more rectangles may be sent to the X server.  count can be 2 to 128.  This option is overridden by
              -quality.

       -db or -doublebuffer (default)
              Draw with double buffering.  This option is ignored if -stippled.

       -ndb or -nodoublebuffer
              Draw without double buffering.  This option is ignored if -shaped.

       -n increment or -nice increment (default: 0)
              Increment nice value of the xdesktopwaves process.  The higher the nice value, the lower the process priority.  A typical value for increment is 10.

       -i or -idle (default)
              Go idle if there are no waves or if the output window is obscured.  This can spare CPU cycles.

       -ni or -noidle
              Never go idle.

       -mo number or -maxoptimization number (default: 2)
              Set maximum optimization by CPU instruction set.  If compiled with GCC for x86 (32 or 64-bit), 1 means MMX and 2 means SSE2.  0 means to have no special optimization.

COLOR OPTIONS
       -c number or -colortheme number (default: 0)
              Select a color theme.  number can be 0 to 9.  Just try them through.  This option is a comfortable alternative for -watercolor, -skycolor and -lightcolor.

       -wc color or -watercolor color
              Set color of water.  This option is overridden by -colortheme.

       -sc color or -skycolor color
              Set color of sky reflections.  This option is overridden by -colortheme.

       -lc color or -lightcolor color
              Set color of light reflections.  This option is overridden by -colortheme.

PHYSICS OPTIONS
       -wm or -wavesbymouse (default)
              Produce waves by mouse pointer movements.

       -nwm or -nowavesbymouse
              Ignore the mouse.

       -ww or -wavesbywindows (default)
              Produce waves by client windows.

       -nww or -nowavesbywindows
              Ignore client windows.

       -rn intensity or -rain intensity (default: 0)
              Simulate raindrops falling on the water.  intensity can be 0 (no rain) to 10 (cloudburst).

       -st intensity or -storm intensity (default: 0)
              Simulate a storm blowing on the water.  intensity can be 0 (no wind) to 10 (strong storm).

       -vs value or -viscosity value (default: 3)
              Set viscosity of the fluid.  value can be 1 to 5.  The higher the viscosity, the shorter the lifetime of waves.

       -si intensity or -skyintensity intensity (default: 5)
              Set intensity of sky reflections.  intensity can be 1 to 10.

       -li intensity or -lightintensity intensity (default: 5)
              Set intensity of light reflections.  intensity can be 1 to 10.

       -lal degrees or -lightaltitude degrees (default: 30)
              Set altitude of the source of light.  degrees can be 0 to 90.

       -laz degrees or -lightazimuth degrees (default: -35)
              Set azimuth of the source of light.  degrees can be -360 to 360.

EXAMPLES
       xdesktopwaves -quality 6 -colortheme 1 -verbose
              Increased quality.  Blue color theme.  Print information about settings and performance.

       xdesktopwaves -q 6 -c 1 -v
              Short cut of the previous example.

       xdesktopwaves -c 2 -rn 8 -r -o
              Dark night with flashy lights.  It's raining.  Draw to the root window without any transparency.

SEE ALSO
       xfishtank, xpenguins(1), xearth(1), xsnow(1), xlife(1x), xsetroot(1), startx(1)

HOMEPAGE
       http://xdesktopwaves.sourceforge.net/

AUTHOR
       Oliver Hamann (olha@users.sourceforge.net)

COPYRIGHT
       xdesktopwaves is copyrighted (C) 2004 by Oliver Hamann

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the  Li‐
       cense, or (at your option) any later version.

       This  program  is  distributed  in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330,  Boston,  MA  02111-1307
       USA

xdesktopwaves 1.3                                                                             18 December 2004                                                                             xdesktopwaves(1)
