XDU(1)                                                                                    General Commands Manual                                                                                    XDU(1)

NAME
       xdu - display the output of "du" in an X window

SYNOPSIS
       du | xdu [options]

DESCRIPTION
       Xdu  is a program for displaying a graphical tree of disk space utilization as reported by the UNIX utility "du".  The user can navigate through the tree structure and change the order of the dis‐
       played information.  The window is divided up into several columns, each of which is one level deeper in the directory hierarchy (from left to right).  Boxes are drawn  for  each  directory.   The
       amount  of  vertical  space occupied by each box is directly proportional to the amount of disk space consumed by it and all of its children.  The name of each directory and the amount of data are
       displayed provided that there is enough space within its box.  Any space at the "bottom" of a box not covered by its children to the right represents the space consumed by files in that  directory
       (as opposed to space from its children).

       There are several command line options available.  Equivalent resources (if any) are shown with each option.

       +s     (.showsize: true) display sizes (the default).

       -s     (.showsize: false) don't display sizes.

       -c num display num columns.

       -a     (.order: alpha) sorts display alphabetically.

       -ra    (.order: ralpha) sorts display reverse alphabetically.

       -n     (.order: size) sorts display numerically (largest first).

       -rn    (.order: rsize) sorts display reverse numerically (smallest first).

       -fg color
              (.foregound) determines the color of the text and lines.

       -bg color
              (.background) determines the color of the background.

       -rv    reverse video (for monochrome displays)

       In addition to these the usual toolkit options such as -rv, -font, -display, -geometry, are supported.

MOUSE ACTIONS
       The  user  can  move  up  or down the tree by clicking the left mouse on a directory box.  If the left most box is selected, the display will move up one level (assuming you are not already at the
       root).  If any other box is selected, it will be placed against the left edge of the window and the display will be rescaled appropriately.  At any time the middle mouse will bring you back to the
       root.  Clicking the right mouse will exit the program.

KEYSTROKES
       Several keystroke commands are supported.  Note that all sorting happens from the current root node down, so it is possible to sort one subtree differently than another by clicking into it,  doing
       a sort, and going back up to the parent.

       1-9,0  sets the number of columns in the display (0 = 10).

       a      alphabetical sort.

       n      numerical sort (largest first).

       f      first-in-first-out sort (this is the order the data was read into the program).

       l      last-in-first-out sort.

       r      reverse sense of sort.

       s      toggle size display.

       h      display a popup help window.

       i      display  information about the current root node to standard out.  The first line shows the path within the tree, the total size from this node on down, and the precentage that total repre‐
              sents of all of the data given to xdu.  Subsequent lines show the size and name information for all children of this node in the order they are currently sorted in.  This allows tiny direc‐
              tories to be seen that otherwise could not be labled on the display, and also allows for cutting and pasting of the information.

       /      goto the root.

       q      (or Escape) exit the program.

ACTIONS
       All mouse and keyboard events trigger actions so they can all be rebound by translations to suit the individual.  The action functions are:

       reset()
              goes to the root node.

       goto() moves down into the directory currently under the mouse (and is thus probably only useful bound to a mouse button).

       quit() exits the program.

       reorder(type)
              sorts the display from the current root node down according to one of: alpha, ralpha (reverse alphabetical), size (largest to smallest), rsize (smallest to largest),  first  (as  originally
              read in), last (opposite of original data), reverse (reverse whatever sort mode is currently selected).

       size() toggles size display on/off

       ncol(num)
              sets the number of columns to num.

       info() displays directory information as described in the KEYBOARD section.

       help() displays a popup help window.

       As an example of rebinding these, you could put the following in your resources file:

       XDu*translations: #override\n\
                 <Key>X: reorder(reverse)\n\
             <Btn3Down>: info()

       to make the 'x' key reverse the current sort order and the right mouse button print the directory information message.

RESOURCES
       The following resources are supported with some sample values.

       XDu*foreground:          yellow
       XDu*background:          blue4
       XDu*window.width:   600
       XDu*window.height:  480
       XDu*help*foreground:     green
       XDu*help*background:     red4
       XDu.ncol:      5
       XDu.font:      -*-helvetica-bold-r-normal--14-*
       XDu.showsize:       False
       XDu.order:          size

EXAMPLE
       cd /usr/src
       du > /tmp/du.out
       xdu -n /tmp/du.out

BUGS
       On  some  machines  keyboard  input may not be accepted by xdu until the mouse is moved out of and back into the window.  I have been told that putting the following in your resources file may fix
       this.

       <window manager name>.FocusLenience: True

SEE ALSO
       du(1)

AUTHOR
       Phillip C. Dykstra
       <phil@arl.army.mil>

                                                                                                    X11                                                                                              XDU(1)
