texindy(1)                                                                  xindy                                                                  texindy(1)

NAME
       texindy - create sorted and tagged index from raw LaTeX index

SYNOPSIS
        texindy [-V?h] [-qv] [-iglr] [-d magic] [-o outfile.ind] [-t log] \
                [-L lang] [-C codepage] [-M module] [idx0 idx1 ...]

   GNU-Style Long Options for Short Options:
        -V / --version
        -? / -h / --help
        -q / --quiet
        -v / --verbose
        -i / --stdin
        -g / --german
        -l / --letter-ordering
        -r / --no-ranges
        -d / --debug          (multiple times)
        -o / --out-file
        -t / --log-file
        -L / --language
        -C / --codepage
        -M / --module         (multiple times)
        -I / --input-markup   (supported: latex, xelatex, omega)

DESCRIPTION
       texindy is the LaTeX-specific command of xindy, the flexible indexing system. It takes a raw index as input, and produces a merged, sorted and tagged
       index. Merging, sorting, and tagging is controlled by xindy modules, with a convenient set already preloaded.

       Files with the raw index are passed as arguments. If no arguments are passed, the raw index will be read from standard input.

       A good introductionary description of texindy appears in the indexing chapter of the LaTeX Companion (2nd ed.)

       If you want to produce an index for LaTeX documents with special index markup, the command xindy(1) is probably more of interest for you.

       texindy is an approach to merge support for the make-rules framework, own xindy modules (e.g., for special LaTeX commands in the index), and a
       reasonable level of MakeIndex compatibility.

OPTIONS
       "--version" / -V
           output version numbers of all relevant components and exit.

       "--help" / -h / -?
           output usage message with options explanation.

       "--quiet" / -q
           Don't output progress messages. Output only error messages.

       "--verbose" / -v
           Output verbose progress messages.

       "--debug" magic / -d magic
           Output debug messages, this option may be specified multiple times.  magic determines what is output:

            magic          remark
            ------------------------------------------------------------
            script         internal progress messages of driver scripts
            keep_tmpfiles  don't discard temporary files
            markup         output markup trace, as explained in xindy manual
            level=n        log level, n is 0 (default), 1, 2, or 3

       "--out-file" outfile.ind / -o outfile.ind
           Output  index  to  file outfile.ind. If this option is not passed, the name of the output file is the base name of the first argument and the file
           extension ind. If the raw index is read from standard input, this option is mandatory.

       "--log-file" log.ilg / -t log.ilg
           Output log messages to file log.ilg. These log messages are independent from the progress messages  that  you  can  influence  with  "--debug"  or
           "--verbose".

       "--language" lang / -L lang
           The index is sorted according to the rules of language lang. These rules are encoded in a xindy module created by make-rules.

           If  no  input encoding is specified via "--codepage" or enforced by input markup, a xindy module for that language is searched with a latin, a cp,
           an iso, ascii, or utf8 encoding, in that order.

       "--codepage" enc / -C enc
           There are two different situations and use cases for this option.

           1.  Input markup is "latex" (the default).

               Then texindy's raw input is assumed to be encoded in LaTeX Internal Character Representation (LICR). I.e., non-ASCII characters are encoded as
               command sequences. This option tells xindy the encoding it shall use for letter group headings. (Additionally it specifies the  encoding  used
               internally for sorting -- but that doesn't matter for the result.)

               Only  LICR  encodings  for  Latin  script alphabets are supported; more precisely characters that are in LaTeX latin1, latin2, and latin3 LICR
               encodings.

               Even when you specify "utf8" as codepage, only these characters will be known. But if you use non-Latin alphabets, you probably use (or should
               use) XeLaTeX or LuaLaTeX and then you have a different input markup.

           2.  Input markup is "xelatex" or "omega".

               Then this option is ignored; codepage "utf8" is enforced.

               texindy's raw input is assumed to be UTF-8 encoded, LICR is not used.

       "--module" module / -M module
           Load the xindy module module.xdy. This option may be specified multiple times. The modules are searched in the  xindy  search  path  that  can  be
           changed with the environment variable "XINDY_SEARCHPATH".

       "--input-markup" input / -I input
           Specifies the input markup of the raw index. Supported values for input are "latex", "xelatex", and "omega".

           "latex"  input  markup is the one that is emitted by default from the LaTeX kernel, or by the "index" macro package of David Jones, when used with
           standard LaTeX or pdfLaTeX. ^^-notation of single byte characters is supported. Usage of LaTeX's inputenc package is assumed as  well,  i.e.,  raw
           input is encoded in LICR.

           "xelatex"  input markup is like "latex", but without inputenc usage. Raw input is encoded in UTF-8. LuaLaTeX has the same input markup, there's no
           special option value for it.

           "omega" input markup is like "latex" input markup, but with Omega's ^^-notation as encoding for non-ASCII characters. LICR encoding  is  not  used
           then, and "utf8" is enforced to be the codepage for sorting and for output of letter group headings.

SUPPORTED LANGUAGES / CODEPAGES
       The following languages are supported:

   Latin scripts
        albanian      gypsy             portuguese
        croatian      hausa             romanian
        czech         hungarian         russian-iso
        danish        icelandic         slovak-small
        english       italian           slovak-large
        esperanto     kurdish-bedirxan  slovenian
        estonian      kurdish-turkish   spanish-modern
        finnish       latin             spanish-traditional
        french        latvian           swedish
        general       lithuanian        turkish
        german-din    lower-sorbian     upper-sorbian
        german-duden  norwegian         vietnamese
        greek-iso     polish

       German recognizes two different sorting schemes to handle umlauts: normally, "ä" is sorted like "ae", but in phone books or dictionaries, it is sorted
       like "a". The first scheme is known as DIN order, the second as Duden order.

       "*-iso" language names assume that the raw index entries are in ISO 8859-9 encoding.

       "gypsy" is a northern Russian dialect.

   Cyrillic scripts
        belarusian    mongolian         serbian
        bulgarian     russian           ukrainian
        macedonian

   Other scripts
        greek         klingon

   Available Codepages
       This  is  not yet written. You can look them up in your xindy distribution, in the modules/lang/language/ directory (where language is your language).
       They are named variant-codepage-lang.xdy, where variant- is most often empty (for german, it's "din5007" and "duden"; for spanish, it's  "modern"  and
       "traditional", etc.)

        < Describe available codepages for each language >

        < Describe relevance of codepages (as internal representation) for
          LaTeX inputenc >

TEXINDY STANDARD MODULES
       There  is  a set of texindy standard modules that help to process LaTeX index files. Some of them are automatically loaded. Some of them are loaded by
       default, this can be turned off with a texindy option. Others may be specified as "--module" argument to achieve a specific effect.

        xindy Module    Category  Description

   Sorting
        word-order      Default   A space comes before any letter in the
                                  alphabet: ``index style'' is listed before
                                  ``indexing''. Turn it off with option -l.
        letter-order    Add-on    Spaces are ignored: ``index style''
                                  is sorted after ``indexing''.
        keep-blanks     Add-on    Leading and trailing white space (blanks
                                  and tabs) are not ignored; intermediate
                                  white space is not changed.
        ignore-hyphen   Add-on    Hyphens are ignored:
                                  ``ad-hoc'' is sorted as ``adhoc''.
        ignore-punctuation Add-on All kinds of punctuation characters are
                                  ignored: hyphens, periods, commas, slashes,
                                  parentheses, and so on.
        numeric-sort    Auto      Numbers are sorted numerically, not like
                                  characters: ``V64'' appears before ``V128''.

   Page Numbers
        page-ranges     Default   Appearances on more than two consecutive
                                  pages are listed as a range: ``1--4''.
                                  Turn it off with option -r.
        ff-ranges       Add-on    Uses implicit ``ff'' notation for ranges
                                  of three pages, and explicit ranges
                                  thereafter: 2f, 2ff, 2--6.
        ff-ranges-only  Add-on    Uses only implicit ranges: 2f, 2ff.
        book-order      Add-on    Sorts page numbers with common book numbering
                                  scheme correctly -- Roman numerals first, then
                                  Arabic numbers, then others: i, 1, A.

   Markup and Layout
        tex             Auto      Handles basic TeX conventions.
        latex-loc-fmts  Auto      Provides LaTeX formatting commands
                                  for page number encapsulation.
        latex           Auto      Handles LaTeX conventions, both in raw
                                  index entries and output markup; implies
                                  tex.
        makeindex       Auto      Emulates the default MakeIndex input syntax
                                  and quoting behavior.
        latin-lettergroups Auto   Layout contains a single Latin letter
                                  above each group of words starting with the
                                  same letter.
        german-sty      Add-on    Handles umlaut markup of babel's german
                                  and ngerman options.

COMPATIBILITY TO MAKEINDEX
       xindy does not claim to be completely compatible with MakeIndex, that would prevent some of its enhancements. That said, we strive to deliver as  much
       compatibility as possible. The most important incompatibilities are

       •   For  raw  index entries in LaTeX syntax, "\index{aaa|bbb}" is interpreted differently. For MakeIndex "bbb" is markup that is output as a LaTeX tag
           for this page number. For xindy, this is a location attribute, an abstract identifier that will be later associated with  markup  that  should  be
           output for that attribute.

           For straight-forward usage, when "bbb" is "textbf" or similar, we supply location attribute definitions that mimic MakeIndex's behaviour.

           For more complex usage, when "bbb" is not an identifier, no such compatibility definitions exist and may also not been created with current xindy.
           Such a situation is reported to exist for the "memoir" LaTeX class.

           Programmers who know Common Lisp and Lex and want to work on a remedy should please contact the author.

       •   If  you  have  an  index rage and a location attribute, e.g., "\index{key\(attr}" starts the range, one needs (1) to specify that attribute in the
           range closing entry as well (i.e., as "\index{key\)attr}") and (2) one needs to declare the index attribute in an xindy style file.

           MakeIndex will output the markup "\attr{page1--page2}" for such  a  construct.  This  is  not  possible  to  achieve  in  xindy,  output  will  be
           "\attrMarkup{page1}--\attrMarkup{page2}". (This is actually considered a bug, but not a high priority one.)

           The difference between MakeIndex page number tags and xindy location attributes was already explained in the previous item.

       •   The MakeIndex compatibility definitions support only the default raw index syntax and markup definition. It is not possible to configure raw index
           parsing or use a MakeIndex style file to describe output markup.

ENVIRONMENT
       "TEXINDY_AUTO_MODULE"
           This is the name of the xindy module that loads all auto-loaded modules. The default is "texindy".

AUTHOR
       Joachim Schrod

LEGALESE
       Copyright (c) 2004-2014 by Joachim Schrod.

       texindy is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
       Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

       This  program  is  distributed  in  the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
       FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

Release 2.5.1                                                             2026-01-29                                                               texindy(1)
