xinput_calibrator(1)                                                                                                                                                                   xinput_calibrator(1)

NAME
       xinput_calibrator - A generic touchscreen calibration program for X.Org

SYNOPSIS
       xinput_calibrator [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       xinput_calibrator is a program for calibrating your touchscreen, when using the X Window System.

       It currently features:
       - works for any standard Xorg touchscreen driver (uses XInput protocol)
       - mis-click detection (prevents bogus calibration)
       - dynamically recalibrates the evdev driver
       - outputs the calibration as xorg.conf.d snippet file
       - and more

       see http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/xinput_calibrator

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
               Print a help message listing the version and available options.

       -v, --verbose
               Print debug messages during the process.

       --list  List the calibratable input devices.

       --device device_name_or_id
               Select a specific device to calibrate; use --list to list the calibratable input devices.

       --precalib min_x max_x min_y max_y
               Manually provide the current calibration setting.
               This is useful if the calibration values are stored in your xorg.conf, but the driver does not export them through XInput (eg. the calibrator can not know these values)

       --misclick nr_of_pixels
               set the misclick threshold (0=off, default: 15 pixels)

       --no-timeout
               turns off the timeout

       --output-type auto|xorg.conf.d|xinput
               type of config to output (auto=automatically detect, default: auto)

       --output-filename filename
               filename to write calibration data to

       --fake  Emulate a fake driver (for testing purposes)
               Useful to test the calibrator without applying the values, and possibly even without having a touchscreen.

       --geometry widthxheight
               Manually provide the geometry (width and height) for the calibration window.

USAGE
       Run xinput_calibrator in a terminal, as it prints out the calibration values and instructions on standard output.

       After clicking the 4 calibration points, xinput_calibrator will calculate the new calibration values. Depending on the Xorg touchscreen driver you use, the new values can be made permanent in dif‐
       ferent ways:

       Evdev:
           Automatically recalibrates the driver for this session,
           Supports following --output-types: auto, xorg.conf.d, xinput

       Usbtouchscreen:
           Automatically recalibrates the *kernel module*, saved in /etc/modprobe.conf.local
           Supports following --output-types: auto

       Other Xorg touchscreen drivers:
           No automatic calibration possible,
           Supports following --output-types: auto, xorg.conf.d

EXAMPLES
       To run the calibrator, type in your terminal:

           xinput_calibrator

       If something goes wrong, or not as expected, turn on verbose messages:

           xinput_calibrator -v

       If you have to manually provide the current calibration values (when using EVDEV, you can use this to reset the calibration first):

           xinput_calibrator --precalib 0 1000 0 1000

TROUBLESHOOTING
       In general, run the calibrator with the -v option, it will tell you what happens and what goes wrong.

       Mis-click detection, the calibrator can automatically detect clicks with unreasonable values. This prevents you from ending up with a bogus calibration.

       If you keep getting the message 'Mis-click detected, restarting...', one of the following is happening:
         1. you are bad at clicking on crosses, use a stylus or increase the --misclick threshold
         2. your device is not properly supported by the kernel, it interprets the clicks wrong
         3. your screen has a non-linear deformation, 4-point calibration can not help you

XWAYLAND
       Xwayland  is an X server that uses a Wayland Compositor as backend.  Xwayland acts as translation layer between the X protocol and the Wayland protocol but does not have direct access to the hard‐
       ware. The X Input Extension devices created by Xwayland ("xwayland-pointer", "xwayland-keyboard", etc.) map to the Wayland protocol devices, not to physical devices.

       There are no input drivers involved in handling Xwayland devices and the configuration files provided by the calibrator are never read.

SEE ALSO
       xinput(1)

AUTHORS
       Tias Guns <tias@ulyssis.org>

Tias Guns                                                                                                                                                                              xinput_calibrator(1)
