MKXLAX(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 MKXLAX(1)

NAME
       mkxlax - xlax and xterm startup program

SYNOPSIS
       mkxlax [options] sendString [more sendStrings ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Mkxlax is an perl script that will start up a number of xterms configured to work together with xlax, and then start up an xlax to communicate with the xterms.

       Mkxlax will start an xterm for each argument (send string) provided.  Each xterm will have it's name hint (the `-name' option) set to xlax:sendString, where the sendString is the argument provided
       to mkxlax.  The xterms will all be started with send events enabled (required for xlax).

       The xterms will be arranged in a cascasde from upper left to lower right.  Other arrangements are possible based on the provided options.

OPTIONS
       -group name
               An alternate prefix should be used with xlax instead of `xlax:'.  This allows multiple groups of xlax windows to be run at the same time without interfering with each other.

       -layout name
               Selects a predefined, named layout screen (from your $HOME/.mkxlax file), and uses that layout information (and group name, if given) for the created windows.

       -x num  The starting x location of the first xterm

       -y num  The starting y location of the first xterm

       -dx num The amount to add in x to the position of each additional xterm

       -dy num The amount to add in y to the position of each additional xterm

       -wrapx num
               If x is greater than this value, x wraps back around to it's starting value.

       -wrapy num
               If y is greater than this value, y wraps back around to it's starting value.

       -wrapdx num
               If a wrap occurs, add this value to x.  Typically this is used together with `-wrapy', so that when y returns to zero, x is shifted.

       -wrapdy num
               If a wrap occurs, add this value to y.  Typically this is used together with `-wrapx', so that when x returns to zero, y is shifted.

       -termsize WIDTHxHEIGHT
               The  width  and  height  (columns  and  rows) for the xterm that will be started.  Note that this is not a full geometry specifcation, as mkxlax handles the window positioning.  Default is
               "80x24"

       -termopts optionstring
               Additional options to pass on to the xterm.  String must be quoted if it contains spaces.  Also, you can not use geometry or name options here.

       -geometry geometrystring
               geometry for the xlax window (NOT the xterms).  This is a standard format X11 geometry, e.g. WIDTHxHEIGHT+XOFFSET+YOFFSET.

       --      Ends option processing (in case a sendString needs to start with a dash).

       If no options are given, the defaults are `-x 0 -y 0 -dx 20 -dy 50 -wrapy 750 -wrapdx 200'

       It's possible to provide options that probably don't make any sense.  The EXAMPLES section shows a few reasonable usages.

LAYOUT CONFIGURATION
       Custom layouts can be added by putting them in the configuration file .mkxlax in your home directory.  The file contains lines with a layout name followed by a colon, and then command line options
       to set for that layout.  For example:
                tile: -group tilexlax -dx 510 -wrapx 1000 -wrapdy 345 -geometry +740-2
       This creates a layout called "tile", with those options set.  Once this is in your .mkxlax file, you can then run:
                mkxlax -layout tile host1 host2 ...
       And all of the options associated with "tile" will apply.  Note that the config file will override any command-line options which are before the "-layout"; command-line options after the "-layout"
       will override those in the config file.

       You can also list sendStrings after the options in the layout configuration, so a frequently used list of strings can be accessed with a simple layout.  Any additional sendStrings provided on  the
       command line will be added to those found in the layout.

EXAMPLES
       This starts up five xterms with the default cascade positioning.
              example% mkxlax host1 host2 host3 host4 host5

       If you run more than one group of mkxlax windows, you need different group names, otherwise later xlaxes will find windows from earlier mkxlax commands.
              example% mkxlax -group foo: host1 host2 host3

       To lay out tiled, by row:
              example% mkxlax -dx 400 -wrapx 1000 -wrapdy 300 host1 host2 ...

       To lay out tiled, by column:
              example% mkxlax -dy 300 -wrapy 700 -wrapdx 400 host1 host2 ...

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY To get default host and display number.

FILES
       $HOME/.mkxlax
              Layout customization information

BUGS
       Probably something, but nothing that comes to mind.

SEE ALSO
       xterm(1), xlax(1)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2007, Thomas A. Fine

X Version 11                                                                                     Release 5                                                                                        MKXLAX(1)
