XLBIFF(1)                                                          General Commands Manual                                                          XLBIFF(1)

NAME
       xlbiff - mail notification pop-up with configurable message scans

SYNOPSIS
       xlbiff [ -option ... ] [ mail_file_or_imap_server ]

DESCRIPTION
       Is “you have mail” not quite enough detail?  Is a per-message notification too much?  Welcome to xlbiff, the X Literate Biff.

       xlbiff presents enough information to tell you: Is this new mail worth reading right now?  And it stops distracting you once you decide.

       xlbiff  waits  in the background, monitoring your mailbox file or IMAP server (or running your custom check-mail script).  When a new message arrives,
       it invokes the MH scan(1) command (or your custom mail-scanning script) and pops up a window with the output (typically the From and Subject  line  of
       each new message).  If more mail arrives, xlbiff scans again and resizes its preview window accordingly.

       Clicking  the  left  mouse  button anywhere in the window causes it to vanish.  It will also vanish if the mailbox becomes empty.  xlbiff stays out of
       your way when there is no new mail and pops up only when something requests your attention.

       Features:
         • occupies no screen real estate until mail comes in
         • supports scripts for checking mail
         • has configurable screen location, color, and font
         • can notify by bell and/or keyboard LED
         • shows all new messages in one, easy-to-dismiss window
         • lets you click anywhere on it; no trying to select a tiny “x”

GETTING STARTED
       If your new mail arrives in a local mail file in the usual system directory:

           xlbiff

       If your mail file is in a different location, you will need to specify the filename:

           xlbiff ~/Mailbox

       If your mail is on an IMAP server, specify the server's name:

           xlbiff imap.example.com

       Whichever way you start xlbiff, if you have new mail, it should pop up a window displaying summary lines for the new messages.  (If you don't have new
       mail, you won't see any window, which is how xlbiff tries to stay out of your way.)  The window will stay visible until you click it away or read  the
       new mail.

       You  may  need  an  entry in ~/.netrc to provide login credentials for the IMAP server of your mail provider.  The format of this file is described in
       mailbox-preview(1).

       When you have the correct options to xlbiff figured out, you will probably want to run it in the background or start it at the  beginning  of  your  X
       session.

OPTIONS
       xlbiff accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options along with the additional options listed below:

       -file file_or_server_name
               This  option  specifies  the  name of the file or IMAP server that should be monitored.  By default, it watches file /var/mail/username, where
               username is your login name.

               If given the name of an IMAP server, xlbiff, assisted by its default checkCommand/scanCommand script mailbox-preview(1), will peek at your new
               messages on this server.

               The -file is optional; a non-option argument will be treated the same.

       -bottom This option tells xlbiff to realize/unrealize() the output window instead of using XtPopup/down().  This has the effect of causing the  window
               manager  to  reposition the window each time it pops up, and is useful for when you specify negative Y coordinates, i.e., at the bottom of the
               screen.  Running xlbiff in this situation without -bottom would cause new lines to run off the bottom edge of the screen.

       +bottom Opposite of -bottom.

       -rows height
               This option specifies the maximum height, in lines of text, of the xlbiff window.  The default is 20.

       -columns width
               This option specifies the maximum width, in characters, of the xlbiff window.  The default is 80.

       -resetSaver
               If this option is set, xlbiff will reset the screen saver when new mail comes in.  This is useful if you're doing something near your worksta‐
               tion but not on it.

       +resetSaver
               Opposite of -resetSaver.

       -update seconds
               This option specifies the frequency in seconds at which xlbiff should update its display.  The default is 15 seconds.

       -fade seconds
               Number of seconds to wait before popping window back down.  This option can be used to monitor events of non-lasting importance, such as  sys‐
               log.  The default value of 0 disables the fade option.

       -led ledNum
               This option specifies a keyboard LED to light up when there is mail waiting in the file.  The default is zero (do not light a LED).

       -ledPopdown
               This  option  indicates  that the LED should be turned off when xlbiff is popped down.  Ordinarily the LED stays lit to remind one of awaiting
               mail.  This option has no effect if the -led option is disabled.

       +ledPopdown
               Opposite of -ledPopdown.

       -refresh seconds
               This option specifies the number of seconds to wait before re-posting the mail window after you acknowledge it, and it still contains the same
               mail.  The default is 0 (no refresh).  A useful value for this is 1800 (30 minutes).

       -mailerCommand command
               Specifies the command to invoke when the mailer() action, described below, is activated.  Due to mailbox consistency considerations, the mail‐
               erCommand should not exit before it is finished with the mailbox, i.e., it should not run its command in the background.

               Example mailerCommand values:

                   xterm -e alpine
                   emacsclient --eval '(mh-rmail)' --suppress-output

               There is no default mailerCommand.

       -scanCommand command
               Specifies a shell command to be executed to list the contents of mailbox file.  The specified string value  is  used  as  the  argument  to  a
               popen(3)  call  and  may  therefore contain I/O redirection.  The command's stdout is used to generate the window.  Internally, the command is
               generated as

                   sprintf(buf, scanCommand, file, columns, rows)

               so a %s, %d and %d respectively in scanCommand will generate the values of file, columns, and rows.  The default scanCommand, specified by the
               XLbiff application resources file, is

                   mailbox-preview %s --width %d --max-messages %d 2>&1

               If a scanCommand is used to change the way the mailbox is accessed (as opposed to change the way the content is displayed), you will  need  to
               supply a compatible checkCommand.

       -checkCommand command
               Specifies  a  shell  command  to be executed to check for new mail (or some other condition) rather than simply examining the size of the mail
               file.  The specified string value is used as the argument to a popen(3) call, and the output generated is important.  Like xbiff, an exit sta‐
               tus of
                • 0 indicates that a change in condition demands a new evaluation of scanCommand and subsequent popup,
                • 1 indicates no change in status, and
                • 2 indicates that the condition has been cleared and the xlbiff window should pop down.

               The default, specified by the XLbiff application resources file, is

                   mailbox-preview %s --check %d

               Similarly to scanCommand, the checkCommand is generated internally as

                   sprintf(buf, checkCommand, file, previous)

               previous is the numeric value output by the last time checkCommand was run, or zero the first time.  This is useful for allowing the checkCom‐
               mand to maintain state.

               See the EXAMPLES section, below, for different ways to use checkCommand.

       -volume percentage
               This option specifies how loud the bell should be rung when new mail comes in.

       The following standard X Toolkit command line arguments are commonly used with xlbiff:

       -display display
               This option specifies the X server to contact.

       -geometry +x+y
               This option specifies the preferred position of the scan window.

       -bg color
               This option specifies the color to use for the background of the window.

       -fg color
               This option specifies the color to use for the foreground of the window.

       -xrm resourcestring
               This option specifies a resource string to be used.  This is especially useful for setting resources that do not have  separate  command  line
               options.

       -help   This option indicates that a brief summary of the allowed options should be printed on standard output.

RESOURCES
       The application class name is XLbiff.  It understands all of the core resource names and classes as well as:

       bottom (class Bottom)
               Same as the -bottom option.

       file (class File)
               Same as the -file option.

       mailerCommand (class MailerCommand)
               Same as the -mailerCommand option.

       scanCommand (class ScanCommand)
               Same as the -scanCommand option.

       checkCommand (class CheckCommand)
               Same as the -checkCommand option.

       resetSaver (class ResetSaver)
               Same as the -resetSaver option.

       update (class Interval)
               Same as the -update option.

       fade (class Fade)
               Same as the -fade option.

       columns (class Columns)
               Same as the -columns option.

       rows (class Rows)
               Specifies the maximum height, in lines, of the xlbiff window.  The default is 20.

       led (class Led)
               Same as the -led option.

       ledPopdown (class LedPopdown)
               Same as the -ledPopdown option.

       refresh (class Refresh)
               Same as the -refresh option.

       sound (class Sound)
               Specify a command to be run in place of a bell when new mail arrives.  For example, on a Sun Sparc you might use:

               *sound: /usr/demo/SOUND/play -v %d /usr/demo/SOUND/sounds/doorbell.au

               The command is generated internally with sprintf(3), so the characters “%d” will be replaced with the numeric value of the volume resource.

       volume (class Volume)
               Same as the -volume option.

ACTIONS
       xlbiff provides the following actions for use in event translations:

       popdown()
               This action causes the window to vanish.

       mailer()
               This  action  causes  xlbiff to pop down the main window and run the defined mailerCommand (if any), waiting for it to exit.  Then xlbiff will
               check for new mail, and if necessary pop up again.

       exit()  This action causes xlbiff to exit.

       The default translations are

           <Button1Press>:  popdown()
           <Button2Press>:  mailer()
           <Button3Press>:  exit()

CUSTOMIZING
       You may want to tweak some values in an app-defaults file and/or add some resources to your .Xdefaults or .Xresources file.  See  the  system  app-de‐
       faults file /etc/X11/app-defaults/XLbiff for examples of what you can customize.

       You also probably want to tell your window manager not to put borders or titlebars or whatever around the xlbiff window.

       Note that an MH format file, xlbiff.form, is included.  This form
         • omits message number, which is meaningless in this context
         • omits message size, since scan -file can't figure it out
         • puts a “*” next to the message if your name is on the To: list (to distinguish from mailing lists and cc's)
         • displays the date in a friendly format
         • packs as much subject and body into one line as possible.

EXAMPLES
   Bulk maildrops
       xlbiff  ships  with  two  sample scripts, Bcheck and Bscan, intended to be used in conjunction.  These are for checking mail in “bulk” maildrops.  See
       README.bulk for more info.

   Laptop fan speed
       xlbiff can be used to display your laptop's temperature sensors only when the fan is running.  This example uses the sensors(1) program as a  scanCom‐
       mand  to  display the sensor values.  To pop up the info only when the laptop is hot, we can use a check command that extracts from the sensors output
       whether the fan is running and whether its speed has changed.  Here is a possible check script:

           fan1_speed=$(sensors | sed -E -n '/^fan/{s/.* ([0-9]+).*/\1/p;q}')
           echo "$fan1_speed"
           [ "$fan1_speed" = 0 ] && exit 2
           [ "$fan1_speed" = "$1" ] && exit 1
           exit 0

       If the script is called xlbiff-fan-check.sh, you can use it by running xlbiff like this:

           xlbiff -checkCommand 'xlbiff-fan-check.sh %d' -scanCommand sensors

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY is used to get the default host and display number.

FILES
       /var/mail/$USER
               Default mail file to check.

       /etc/X11/app-defaults/XLbiff
               System app-defaults file for X11 resources.  Override entries here in your own app-defaults file or your  own  ~/.Xdefaults  or  ~/.Xresources
               file.

       ~/.netrc
               Login info for the IMAP server.  See mailbox-preview(1).

SEE ALSO
       mailbox-preview(1), scan(1), X(7)

BUGS
       Specifying dimensions in -geometry causes badness.

       The led option does not work on Suns before SunOS 4.1/X11R5.

AUTHOR
       Ed Santiago <ed@edsantiago.com>

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
       xlbiff  took  shape  around the xgoodbye sample program in the O'Reilly X Toolkit Intrinsics Programming Manual.  A lot of code was copied from xbiff,
       including this man page.  Thanks also to Stephen Gildea (gildea@expo.lcs.mit.edu) for the many, many contributions that made xlbiff grow from  a  mid‐
       night hack to a more mature product.

       The xlbiff.form file was copied and hacked from Jerry Peek's excellent Nutshell book MH & xmh: Email for Users & Programmers.

                                                                          2022-01-23                                                                XLBIFF(1)
