xrepo(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  xrepo(1)

NAME
       xrepo - cross-platform build utility based on Lua

SYNOPSIS
       xrepo [action] [options]

DESCRIPTION
       xrepo  is a lightweight cross-platform build utility based on Lua. It uses xrepo.lua to maintain project builds. Compared with makefile/CMakeLists.txt, the configuration syntax is more concise and
       intuitive. It is very friendly to novices and can quickly get started in a short time. Let users focus more on actual project development.

ACTIONS
       clean  Clear all package caches and remove all not-referenced packages.

       env    Set environment and execute command, or print environment.

       export Export the given packages.

       fetch  Fetch library information of the given installed packages.

       import Import the given packages.

       info   Show information of the given packages.

       install
              Install the given packages.

       remove Remove the given packages.

       scan   Scan the given or all installed packages.

       search Search the given packages.

       add-repo
              Add the given remote repository url.

       list-repo
              List all remote repositories.

       rm-repo
              Remove the given remote repository.

       update-repo
              Update all local repositories from remote.

OPTIONS
       -q, --quiet
              Quiet operation.

       -y, --yes
              Input yes by default if need user confirm.

       --root Allow one to run xrepo as root.

       -v, --verbose
              Print lots of verbose information for users.

       -D, --diagnosis
              Print lots of diagnosis information.

       --version
              Print the version number and exit.

       -h, --help
              Print this help message and exit.

AUTHOR
       xrepo is written by ruki.

       This manual page was written by Yangfl for the Debian Project (and may be used by others).

                                                                                                                                                                                                   xrepo(1)
