XMMS2-ET(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 XMMS2-ET(1)

NAME
       xmms2-et - transmits an anonymous informative packet to the XMMS2 team on each song change

SYNOPSIS
       xmms2-et

DESCRIPTION
       XMMS2 is a redesign of the XMMS (http://xmms2.org) music player. It features a client-server model, allowing multiple (even simultaneous!) user interfaces, both textual and graphical. All common audio
       formats are supported using plugins. On top of this, there is a flexible media library to organize your music.

       xmms2-et is the ET Phone Home Client for XMMS2.  xmms2-et is designed to transmit a packet of information to the XMMS2 team whenever a new song is played. The packet is anonymous and does not  contain
       metadata about the song being played. The specifics of what data is transmitted to the XMMS2 team can be found in the ET PACKET section of this manual page.

       xmms2-et  is  used  for  release  engineering by the XMMS2 team. During a release cycle, the usage of various plugins, operating systems, and XMMS2 components is collected from data transmitted by the
       xmms2-et client. A release is made when sufficient testing has occured as determined by the number of related xmms2-et packets that the XMMS2 team has received.

ET PACKET
       The following data is transmitted with every packet transmitted by xmms2-et:

       XMMS2-ET status
              Begins XMMS2-ET packets; status gives a descriptive message denoting what this packet is about. (e.g. Clean shutdown, Unclean shutdown, New media)

       version=version
              contains the version of the XMMS2 daemon

       system=os
              contains the name and release of the operating system on which xmms2d is running

       output=output_plugin
              contains the output plugin being used to playback audio by xmms2d

       starttime=start_time
              contains the time at which the xmms2-et client was started

       uptime=xmms2d_uptime
              contains the uptime of the xmms2-et client

       playlistloads=times
              contains the number of times a playlist has been loaded from the Media Library

       mlibresolves=times
              contains the number of times that metadata has been resolved for media in the Media Library

       The following data is different for each song being played:

       decoder=plugin
              contains the decoder plugin used to playback the last played song

       transport=plugin
              contains the transport plugin used to read the last played song

       samplefmt:in=in_fmt
              contains the sample format of the original audio file of the last played song

       samplefmt:out=out_fmt
              contains the sample format that was sent to the output plugin for the last played song

       samplerate:in=in_rate
              contains the sample rate of the original audio file of the last played song

       samplerate:out=out_rate
              contains the sample rate that was sent to the output plugin for the last played song

       channels:in=number_in
              contains the number of channels of the original audio file of the last played song

       channels:out=number_out
              contains the number of channels that were sent to the output plugin for the last played song

ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES
       XMMS_PATH
              The URL path to xmms2d.  See IPC SOCKET in xmms2d(8) for details of possible values for this variable

SEE ALSO
       xmms2(1), xmms2d(8), http://xmms2.org

HISTORY
       The XMMS2 Project was started by Tobias Rundström and Anders Gustafsson. It is developed with their lead by a small group of contributers from all over the world.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Alexander Botero-Lowry <alex@foxybanana.com>

                                                                                                                                                                                                    XMMS2-ET(1)
