XOREOSTEX2TGA(1)                                                                          BSD General Commands Manual                                                                          XOREOSTEX2TGA(1)

NAME
     xoreostex2tga — BioWare textures to TGA converter

SYNOPSIS
     xoreostex2tga [options] input_file output_file

DESCRIPTION
     xoreostex2tga converts textures of various formats found in BioWare games into plain TGA images.

     Supported formats:
     DDS     Both the common DirectDraw Surface format and BioWare's own, completely different DDS format are supported, each with a variety of pixel formats
     SBM     Found in Jade Empire, holding font glyphs
     TXB     Textures in Jade Empire and the Xbox version of Knights of the Old Republic
     TPC     Textures in other versions of Knights of the Old Republic.
     TGA     Textures in various games, in many different pixels formats

     The output format is always either 24-bit or 32-bit BGR(A) TGA, depending on whether the input file has an alpha channel or not.  Only the highest resolution mip map will be used.

OPTIONS
     -h
     --help
           Show a help text and exit.
     --version
           Show version information and exit.
     -f
     --flip
           Flip the image vertically while converting.
     --auto
           Try to autodetect the format of the input file.  This is the default mode of operation.
     --dds
           Explicitly mark the input file as DDS.
     --sbm
           Explicitly mark the input file as SBM.
     --tpc
           Explicitly mark the input file as TPC.
     --txb
           Explicitly mark the input file as TXB.
     --tga
           Explicitly mark the input file as TGA.
     input_file
           The name of the texture file to read.
     output_file
           The resulting TGA file will be written there.

EXAMPLES
     Convert texture.dds into image.tga:

           $ xoreostex2tga texture.dds image.tga

     Convert texture.dds into image.tga and flip the image:

           $ xoreostex2tga --flip texture.dds image.tga

     Convert the TPC texture.txb into image.tga and flip the image:

           $ xoreostex2tga --flip --tpc texture.txb image.tga

SEE ALSO
     More information about the xoreos project can be found on its website: https://xoreos.org/

AUTHORS
     This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.  Please see the AUTHORS file for details.

BSD                                                                                              July 23, 2015                                                                                              BSD
