XORRISO-TCLTK(1)                                                                          General Commands Manual                                                                          XORRISO-TCLTK(1)

NAME
       xorriso-tcltk -  Educational GUI frontend for xorriso

SYNOPSIS
       xorriso-tcltk [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       xorriso-tcltk demonstrates xorriso use cases by a collection of GUI components.

       It creates a window with buttons, editable text fields, and list boxes.  For exploration simply start xorriso-tcltk without any options.

       Click  on  the  "Help" button at the upper right edge to get an overview help text in a separate window. It explains the three main parts of the GUI window and it gives examples for a few main use
       cases of xorriso.

       Click by the rightmost mouse button on any button, list box, or text field, to get a specific help text in another window.

       xorriso is a program which copies file objects from POSIX compliant filesystems into Rock Ridge enhanced ISO 9660 filesystems and performs session-wise manipulation of  such  filesystems.  It  can
       load the management information of existing ISO images and it writes the session results to optical media or to filesystem objects.
       Vice versa xorriso is able to copy file objects out of ISO 9660 filesystems.

OPTIONS
       Normally,  no  program  options  are  needed when xorriso-tcltk gets started. Some of the options are for demonstration of program development.  This man page lists only those options which may be
       helpful for end users.

       --help Print a help text with the complete list of start options and exit.

       --no_extract
              Do not allow extraction of files from ISO filesystem to hard disk. This is not revokable during the program run.

       --geometry {+|-}X{+|-}Y
              Set the position of the main window on the screen. +0X is the left edge, -0X is the right edge, +0Y is the upper edge, -0Y is the lower edge.

       --click_to_focus
              Chooses that input fields and list boxes get the keyboard focus only when being clicked by the mouse. This is the default.

       --auto_focus
              Chooses that the keyboard focus is where the mouse pointer is.

EXAMPLES
       Just run xorriso-tcltk in a shell terminal without any further arguments

FILES
   Startup files:
       When starting xorriso, its normal startup files get read and their text lines get executed as commands. See section FILES in the man page of xorriso or  chapter  Files  in  the  info  document  of
       xorriso.

SEE ALSO
       xorriso(1)

BUGS
       To  report  bugs,  request  help,  or  suggest enhancements for xorriso or xorriso-tcltk, please send electronic mail to the public list <bug-xorriso@gnu.org>.  If more privacy is desired, mail to
       <scdbackup@gmx.net>.
       Please describe what you expect the program to do, the program arguments, GUI components, or dialog commands by which you tried to achieve it, the messages of xorriso, and the undesirable  outcome
       of your program run.
       Expect to get asked more questions before solutions can be proposed.

AUTHOR
       Thomas Schmitt <scdbackup@gmx.net>
       for libburnia-project.org

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2011 - 2023 Thomas Schmitt
       Permission  is granted to distribute this text freely. It shall only be modified in sync with the technical properties of xorriso-tcltk.  If you make use of the license to derive modified versions
       of xorriso-tcltk then you are entitled to modify this text under that same license.

CREDITS
       xorriso is in part based on work by Vreixo Formoso who provides libisofs together with Mario Danic who also leads the libburnia team.  Thanks to Andy Polyakov who  invented  emulated  growing,  to
       Derek Foreman and Ben Jansens who once founded libburn.
       Compliments towards Joerg Schilling whose cdrtools served me for ten years.

                                                                                        Version 1.5.6, Jun 07, 2023                                                                        XORRISO-TCLTK(1)
