XPRA_LAUNCHER(1)                                                                            General Commands Manual                                                                            XPRA_LAUNCHER(1)

NAME
       xpra_launcher - User interface to connect to a Xpra session

SYNOPSIS
       xpra_launcher [FILENAME]

DESCRIPTION
       xpra_launcher is a tool which enables you to connect to a remote xpra(1) session using a graphical user interface. It is able to read a pre-configured session file.

       When called without FILENAME, xpra_launcher will spawn a GTK window allowing you to set the connection parameters easily.  If FILENAME is specified, the parameters in the GUI will be set to the values
       specified in the session file. Additionally, if the session file contains the special parameter "autoconnect", xpra_launcher will skip displaying the parameters window and will establish  the  connec‐
       tion directly.

SESSION FILE
       The  format  of  the  session file passed to xpra_launcher as a parameter is a series of parameter = value lines.  Most of the options available through the xpra command line are also available in the
       session file.  For instance:

       host   Specify the remote host to connect to.

       port   Specify the remote port to connect to.

       encoding
              Specify the encoding type to use: h264, jpeg, png, ... See xpra --help for the full list of available encodings.

       quality
              Set the image quality when using lossy encodings. Values are 1-100.

       mode   Connection mode: tcp or ssh.

       autoconnect
              Specify whether to establish connection immediately (True) or simply pre-fill the parameters for the user to review (False, the default).

SEE ALSO
       xpra(1)

                                                                                                                                                                                               XPRA_LAUNCHER(1)
