
XREADER(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  XREADER(1)

NAME
       Xreader - A Document Viewer

SYNTAX
       xreader [OPTIONS...] [FILES...]

DESCRIPTION
       Xreader is a simple multi-page document viewer. It can display and print PostScript (PS), Encapsulated PostScript (EPS), DJVU, DVI, XPS and Portable Document Format (PDF) files.

       When supported by the document, it also allows searching for text, copying text to the clipboard, hypertext navigation, and table-of-contents bookmarks.

       This manual page briefly documents the xreader command.

OPTIONS
       filename(s)...
              Specifies  the file to open when xreader starts. If this is not specified, xreader will start with a blank window and you may open a file from the menu or by using the shortcut CTRL+O. Multiple
              files can be loaded if they are separated by spaces. xreader also supports handling of remote files.

       -p, --page-label=PAGE
              Here you can specify a page label, this page will be selected in the document if it exists.

       -i, --page-index=NUMBER
              Here you can specify a page number, this page will be selected in the document if it exists.

       -f, --fullscreen
              Start xreader in fullscreen mode. You must specify a document to start in fullscreen mode.

       -s, --presentation
              Start xreader in presentation mode. You must specify a document to start in presentation mode.

       -w, --preview
              Start xreader in preview mode. You must specify a document to start in preview mode.

       --display=DISPLAY
              X display to use.

       --version
              Output version information and exit.

       -?, -h, --help
              Print standard command line options.

       --help-all
              Print all command line options.

       This program also accepts the standard GTK options.

EXAMPLES
       xreader --preview ~/Desktop/stuff.ps
           Open stuff.ps from the current users desktop, in preview mode.

       xreader -i 2 -s ./document.pdf
           Open document.pdf from the current working directory, on page 2 in presentation mode.

BUGS
   Should you encounter any bugs, they may be reported at:
       http://github.com/linuxmint/xreader/issues

SEE ALSO
   Xreader documentation can be found from the "Help" menu, or by pressing the F1 key.
                                                                                                8 February 2016                                                                                      XREADER(1)
