x2gokdrive(1)                                                                             General Commands Manual                                                                             x2gokdrive(1)

NAME
       x2gokdrive - X server providing a graphical backend for X2Go Server

SYNOPSIS
       x2gokdrive [:display] [option ...]

DESCRIPTION
       x2gokdrive is a kdrive server that provides a graphical backend for X2Go desktop sessions, supporting modern extensions like composite, damage and randr.

       Unlike  nxagent  (aka  x2goagent) which is an X proxy, i.e. limited to the capabilities of the host X server, x2gokdrive is a real X server which uses the host X server window as "framebuffer" via
       fast SHM XImages.

OPTIONS
       The server accepts all the standard options of Xserver(1).

       Furthermore, it understands the nxagent-way of providing session options via the $DISPLAY environment variable. Currently, only a subset of nxagent's nx/nx display options is  supported.  Non-sup‐
       ported nx/nx options get ignored.

SIGNALS
       Sending the SIGHUP signal to x2gokdrive switches the X server from running to suspend state and back.

       Sending the SIGTERM signal to x2gokdrive shuts down the X server (and ends all applications attached to its $DISPLAY).

CAVEATS
       • The '-host-cursor' cursor is static in its appearance.

       • The build gets a warning about 'nanosleep'. I think the various '-D' build flags are causing this. I haven't figured as yet how to work round it. It doesn't appear to break anything however.

SEE ALSO
       X(7), Xserver(1), nxagent(@appmansuffic@), x2goagent(1)

AUTHOR
       This man page has been written by Mike Gabriel <mike.gabriel@das-netzwerkteam.de> for the X2Go Project (https://wiki.x2go.org).

X Version 11                                                                                xorg-server 21.1.16                                                                               x2gokdrive(1)
