LIBINPUT(4)                                                                               Kernel Interfaces Manual                                                                              LIBINPUT(4)

NAME
       libinput - libinput-based X.Org input driver

SYNOPSIS
       Section "InputDevice"
         Identifier "devname"
         Driver "libinput"
         Option "Device"   "devpath"
         ...
       EndSection

NOTE
       This is the man page for the X input driver. If you are looking for the library documentation, go to http://wayland.freedesktop.org/libinput/doc/

DESCRIPTION
       libinput is an Xorg input driver based on libinput.  It therefore supports all input devices that libinput can handle, including most mice, keyboards, tablets and touchscreens.

       It  is  recommended that libinput devices are configured through the InputClass directive (refer to xorg.conf(5)) instead of manual per-device configuration. Devices configured in the xorg.conf(5)
       are not hot-plug capable.

CONFIGURATION DETAILS
       Please refer to xorg.conf(5) for general configuration details and for options that can be used with all input drivers.  This section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.

       The following driver Options are supported:

       Option "AccelProfile" "string"
              Sets the pointer acceleration profile to the given profile. Permitted values are adaptive, flat, custom.  Not all devices support this option or all profiles. If a profile  is  unsupported,
              the default profile for this device is used. For a description on the profiles and their behavior, see the libinput documentation.

       Option "AccelSpeed" "float"
              Sets the pointer acceleration speed within the range [-1, 1].  This only applies to the flat or adaptive profile.

       Option "AccelPointsFallback" "string"
       Option "AccelPointsMotion" "string"
       Option "AccelPointsScroll" "string"
              Sets  the points of the Fallback/Motion/Scroll acceleration functions.  The string must be a space-separated list of floating point non-negative numbers, e.g.  "0.0 1.0 2.4 2.5".  This only
              applies to the custom profile.  See section CUSTOM ACCELERATION PROFILE

       Option "AccelStepFallback" "float"
       Option "AccelStepMotion" "float"
       Option "AccelStepScroll" "float"
              Sets the step between the points of the Fallback/Motion/Scroll acceleration functions.  When a step of 0.0 is provided, libinput's Fallback acceleration function is used.  This only applies
              to the custom profile.  See section CUSTOM ACCELERATION PROFILE

       Option "ButtonMapping" "string"
              Sets the logical button mapping for this device, see XSetPointerMapping(3). The string must be a space-separated list of button mappings in the order of the logical buttons on  the  device,
              starting with button 1.  The default mapping is "1 2 3 ... 32". A mapping of 0 deactivates the button. Multiple buttons can have the same mapping.  Invalid mapping strings are discarded and
              the default mapping is used for all buttons. Buttons not specified in the user's mapping use the default mapping. See section BUTTON MAPPING for more details.

       Option "CalibrationMatrix" "string"
              A  string of 9 space-separated floating point numbers, in the order "a b c d e f g h i".  Sets the calibration matrix to the 3x3 matrix where the first row is (abc), the second row is (def)
              and the third row is (ghi).

       Option "ClickMethod" "string"
              Enables a click method. Permitted values are none, buttonareas, clickfinger.  Not all devices support all methods, if an option is unsupported, the default click method for this  device  is
              used.

       Option "DisableWhileTyping" "bool"
              Indicates if the touchpad should be disabled while typing on the keyboard (this does not apply to modifier keys such as Ctrl or Alt).

       Option "Device" "string"
              Specifies  the device through which the device can be accessed.  This will generally be of the form "/dev/input/eventX", where X is some integer.  When using InputClass directives, this op‐
              tion is set by the server.  The mapping from device node to hardware is system-dependent. Property: "Device Node" (read-only).

       Option "DragLockButtons" "L1 B1 L2 B2 ..."
              Sets "drag lock buttons" that simulate a button logically down even when it has been physically released. To logically release a locked button, a second click of  the  same  button  is  re‐
              quired.

              If the option is a single button number, that button acts as the "meta" locking button for the next button number. See section BUTTON DRAG LOCK for details.

              If  the  option  is a list of button number pairs, the first number of each number pair is the lock button, the second number the logical button number to be locked. See section BUTTON DRAG
              LOCK for details.

              For both meta and button pair configuration, the button numbers are device button numbers, i.e. the ButtonMapping applies after drag lock.

       Option "HighResolutionWheelScrolling" "bool"
              Disables high-resolution wheel scroll events, enabled by default. When enabled, the driver forwards only high-resolution wheel scroll events from libinput.  When disabled, the  driver  for‐
              wards legacy wheel scroll events instead.

       Option "HorizontalScrolling" "bool"
              Enables  or  disables horizontal scrolling. When disabled, this driver will discard any horizontal scroll events from libinput. This does not disable horizontal scroll events from libinput;
              it merely discards the horizontal axis from any scroll events. Default is enabled.

       Option "LeftHanded" "bool"
              Enables left-handed button orientation, i.e. swapping left and right buttons.

       Option "MiddleEmulation" "bool"
              Enables middle button emulation. When enabled, pressing the left and right buttons simultaneously produces a middle mouse button click.

       Option "NaturalScrolling" "bool"
              Enables or disables natural scrolling behavior.

       Option "RotationAngle" "float"
              Sets the rotation angle of the device to the given angle, in degrees clockwise. The angle must be between 0.0 (inclusive) and 360.0 (exclusive).

       Option "ScrollButton" "int"
              Designates a button as scroll button. If the ScrollMethod is button and the button is logically down, x/y axis movement is converted into scroll events.

       Option "ScrollButtonLock" "bool"
              Enables or disables the scroll button lock. If enabled, the ScrollButton is considered logically down after the first click and remains down until the second click of that button.  If  dis‐
              abled (the default), the ScrollButton button is considered logically down while held down and up once physically released.

       Option "ScrollMethod" "string"
              Enables  a scroll method. Permitted values are none, twofinger, edge, button.  Not all devices support all options, if an option is unsupported, the default scroll option for this device is
              used.

       Option "ScrollPixelDistance" "int"
              Sets the movement distance, in "pixels", required to trigger one logical wheel click. This option only applies to the scroll methods twofinger, edge, button.  See section SCROLL PIXEL  DIS‐
              TANCE for more details.

       Option "SendEventsMode" "(disabled|enabled|disabled-on-external-mouse)"
              Sets the send events mode to disabled, enabled, or "disable when an external mouse is connected".

       Option "TabletToolPressureCurve" "x0/y0 x1/y1 x2/y2 x3/y3"
              Set  the  pressure  curve for a tablet stylus to the bezier formed by the four points. The respective x/y coordinate must be in the [0.0, 1.0] range. For more information see section TABLET
              STYLUS PRESSURE CURVE.

       Option "TabletToolPressureRange" "min max"
              Set the pressure range for a tablet stylus to the given subset of the physical range. The min/max values must be in the [0.0, 1.0] range. For example a min of 0.3 means the tablet will send
              0 pressure for anything equal or below 30% of the physical pressure range and a max of 0.7 means the tablet sends its maximum pressure value for any pressure equal or higher to 70%  of  the
              physical pressure range.

       Option "TabletToolAreaRatio" "w:h"
              Sets  the  area  ratio  for a tablet tool. The area always starts at the origin (0/0) and expands to the largest available area with the specified aspect ratio. Events outside this area are
              cropped to the area. The special value "default" is used for the default mapping (i.e. the device-native mapping). For more information see section TABLET TOOL AREA RATIO.

       Option "Tapping" "bool"
              Enables or disables tap-to-click behavior.

       Option "TappingButtonMap" "(lrm|lmr)"
              Set the button mapping for 1/2/3-finger taps to left/right/middle or left/middle/right, respectively.

       Option "TappingDrag" "bool"
              Enables or disables drag during tapping behavior ("tap-and-drag"). When enabled, a tap followed by a finger held down causes a single button down only,  all  motions  of  that  finger  thus
              translate into dragging motion.  Tap-and-drag requires option Tapping to be enabled.

       Option "TappingDragLock" "bool"
              Enables  or  disables  drag  lock  during tapping behavior. When enabled, a finger up during tap-and-drag will not immediately release the button. If the finger is set down again within the
              timeout, the dragging process continues.

       For all options, the options are only parsed if the device supports that configuration option. For all options, the default value is the one used by libinput. On configuration failure, the default
       value is applied.

SUPPORTED PROPERTIES
       libinput exports runtime-configurable options as properties. If a property listed below is not available, the matching configuration option is not available on the device. This  however  does  not
       imply that the feature is not available on the device. The following properties are provided by the libinput driver.

       libinput Accel Profiles Available
              3 boolean values (8 bit, 0 or 1), in order "adaptive", "flat", "custom".  Indicates which acceleration profiles are available on this device.

       libinput Accel Profile Enabled
              3 boolean values (8 bit, 0 or 1), in order "adaptive", "flat", "custom".  Indicates which acceleration profile is currently enabled on this device.

       libinput Accel Speed
              1 32-bit float value, defines the pointer speed. Value range -1, 1.  This only applies to the flat or adaptive profile.

       libinput Accel Custom Fallback Points
       libinput Accel Custom Motion Points
       libinput Accel Custom Scroll Points
              A  space-separated  list of 32-bit floating point non-negative numbers, e.g.  "0.0 1.0 2.4 2.5".  Sets the points of the Fallback/Motion/Scroll acceleration functions.  This only applies to
              the custom profile.  See section CUSTOM ACCELERATION PROFILE

       libinput Accel Custom Fallback Step
       libinput Accel Custom Motion Step
       libinput Accel Custom Scroll Step
              1 32-bit float value, sets the step between the points of the Fallback/Motion/Scroll acceleration functions.  When a step of 0.0 is provided, libinput's Fallback  acceleration  function  is
              used.  This only applies to the custom profile.  See section CUSTOM ACCELERATION PROFILE

       libinput Button Scrolling Button
              1  32-bit  value. Sets the button number to use for button scrolling. This setting is independent of the scroll method, to enable button scrolling the method must be set to button-scrolling
              and a valid button must be set.

       libinput Button Scrolling Button Lock Enabled
              1 boolean value. If true, the scroll button lock is enabled.  This setting is independent of the scroll method or the scroll button, to enable button scrolling the method  must  be  set  to
              button-scrolling and a valid button must be set.

       libinput Calibration Matrix
              9 32-bit float values, representing a 3x3 calibration matrix, order is row 1, row 2, row 3

       libinput Click Methods Available
              2 boolean values (8 bit, 0 or 1), in order "buttonareas", "clickfinger".  Indicates which click methods are available on this device.

       libinput Click Methods Enabled
              2 boolean values (8 bit, 0 or 1), in order "buttonareas", "clickfinger".  Indicates which click methods are enabled on this device.

       libinput Drag Lock Buttons
              Either one 8-bit value specifying the meta drag lock button, or a list of button pairs. See section BUTTON DRAG LOCK for details.

       libinput High Resolution Wheel Scroll Enabled
              1 boolean value (8 bit, 0 or 1). Indicates whether high-resolution wheel scroll events are enabled or not.

       libinput Horizontal Scroll Enabled
              1 boolean value (8 bit, 0 or 1). Indicates whether horizontal scrolling events are enabled or not.

       libinput Left Handed Enabled
              1 boolean value (8 bit, 0 or 1). Indicates if left-handed mode is enabled or disabled.

       libinput Middle Emulation Enabled
              1 boolean value (8 bit, 0 or 1). Indicates if middle emulation is enabled or disabled.

       libinput Natural Scrolling Enabled
              1 boolean value (8 bit, 0 or 1). 1 enables natural scrolling

       libinput Rotation Angle
              1 32-bit float value [0.0 to 360.0). Sets the rotation angle of the device, clockwise of its natural neutral position.

       libinput Scroll Methods Available
              3 boolean values (8 bit, 0 or 1), in order "two-finger", "edge", "button".  Indicates which scroll methods are available on this device.

       libinput Scroll Method Enabled
              3 boolean values (8 bit, 0 or 1), in order "two-finger", "edge", "button".  Indicates which scroll method is currently enabled on this device.

       libinput Scroll Pixel Distance
              1 32-bit value (nonzero, with additional implementation-defined range checks).  Changes the movement distance required to trigger one logical wheel click.

       libinput Send Events Modes Available
              2 boolean values (8 bit, 0 or 1), in order "disabled" and "disabled-on-external-mouse". Indicates which send-event modes are available on this device.

       libinput Send Events Mode Enabled
              2 boolean values (8 bit, 0 or 1), in order "disabled" and "disabled-on-external-mouse". Indicates which send-event modes is currently enabled on this device.

       libinput Tablet Tool Pressurecurve
              4 32-bit float values [0.0 to 1.0]. See section TABLET TOOL PRESSURE CURVE

       libinput Tablet Tool Area Ratio
              2 32-bit values, corresponding to width and height. Special value 0, 0 resets to the default ratio. See section TABLET TOOL AREA RATIO for more information.

       libinput Tapping Enabled
              1 boolean value (8 bit, 0 or 1). 1 enables tapping

       libinput Tapping Button Mapping Enabled
              2 boolean value (8 bit, 0 or 1), in order "lrm" and "lmr". Indicates which button mapping is currently enabled on this device.

       libinput Tapping Drag Lock Enabled
              1 boolean value (8 bit, 0 or 1). 1 enables drag lock during tapping

       libinput Disable While Typing Enabled
              1 boolean value (8 bit, 0 or 1). Indicates if disable while typing is enabled or disabled.

       Most properties have a libinput <property name> Default equivalent that indicates the default value for this setting on this device.

BUTTON MAPPING
       X  clients receive events with logical button numbers, where 1, 2, 3 are usually interpreted as left, middle, right and logical buttons 4, 5, 6, 7 are usually interpreted as scroll up, down, left,
       right. The fourth and fifth physical buttons on a device will thus send logical buttons 8 and 9.  The ButtonMapping option adjusts the logical button mapping, it does not  affect  how  a  physical
       button is mapped to a logical button.

       Traditionally,  a  device was set to left-handed button mode by applying a button mapping of "3 2 1 ..." On systems using the libinput Xorg input driver it is recommended to use the LeftHanded op‐
       tion instead.

       The libinput Xorg input driver does not use the button mapping after setup.  Use XSetPointerMapping(3) to modify the button mapping at runtime.

BUTTON DRAG LOCK
       Button drag lock holds a button logically down even when the button itself has been physically released since. Button drag lock comes in two modes.

       If in "meta" mode, a meta button click activates drag lock for the next button press of any other button. A button click in the future will keep that button held logically down until a  subsequent
       click of that same button. The meta button events themselves are discarded. A separate meta button click is required each time a drag lock should be activated for a button in the future.

       If  in "pairs" mode, each button can be assigned a target locking button.  On button click, the target lock button is held logically down until the next click of the same button. The button events
       themselves are discarded and only the target button events are sent.

       This feature is provided by this driver, not by libinput.

TABLET TOOL PRESSURECURVE
       The pressure curve affects how stylus pressure is reported. By default, the hardware pressure is reported as-is. By setting a pressure curve, the feel of the stylus can be adjusted to be more like
       e.g. a pencil or a brush.

       The pressure curve is a cubic Bezier curve, drawn within a normalized range of 0.0 to 1.0 between the four points provided. This normalized range is applied to the tablet's pressure input so  that
       the  highest pressure maps to 1.0. The points must have increasing x coordinates, if x0 is larger than 0.0 all pressure values lower than x0 are equivalent to y0. If x3 is less than 1.0, all pres‐
       sure values higher than x3  are equivalent to y3.

       The input for a linear  curve  (default) is  "0.0/0.0 0.0/0.0 1.0/1.0 1.0/1.0"; a slightly depressed curve (firmer) might be "0.0/0.0 0.05/0.0 1.0/0.95 1.0/1.0"; a slightly raised  curve  (softer)
       might  be "0.0/0.0 0.0/0.05 0.95/1.0 1.0/1.0".

       This feature is provided by this driver, not by libinput.

TABLET TOOL AREA RATIO
       By  default, a tablet tool can access the whole sensor area and the tablet area is mapped to the available screen area. For external tablets like the Wacom Intuos series, the height:width ratio of
       the tablet may be different to that of the monitor, causing the skew of input data.

       To avoid this skew of input data, an area ratio may be set to match the ratio of the screen device. For example, a ratio of 4:3 will reduce the available area of the tablet to the  largest  avail‐
       able  area  with a ratio of 4:3. Events within this area will scale to the tablet's announced axis range, the area ratio is thus transparent to the X server. Any events outside this area will send
       events equal to the maximum value of that axis.  The area always starts at the device's origin in it's current rotation, i.e.  it takes left-handed-ness into account.

       This feature is provided by this driver, not by libinput.

SCROLL PIXEL DISTANCE
       The X server does not support per-pixel scrolling but it does support smooth scrolling. All scroll events however are based around a logical unit of scrolling  (traditionally  corresponding  to  a
       wheel click).  It is thus not possible to scroll by 10 pixels, but it is possible for a driver to scroll by 1/10th of a logical wheel click.

       libinput provides scroll data in pixels. The ScrollPixelDistance option defines the amount of movement equivalent to one wheel click. For example, a value of 50 means the user has to move a finger
       by 50 pixels to generate one logical click event and each pixel is 1/50th of a wheel click.

CUSTOM ACCELERATION PROFILE
       The  custom  pointer acceleration profile gives users full control over the acceleration behavior at different speeds. libinput exposes an acceleration function f(x) where the x-axis is the device
       speed in device units per millisecond and the y-axis is the pointer speed.

       The custom acceleration function is defined using n points which are spaced uniformly along the x-axis, starting from 0 and continuing in constant steps.  Thus the points defining the custom func‐
       tion are:
       (0 * step, f[0]), (1 * step, f[1]), ..., ((n-1) * step, f[n-1])
       When a velocity value does not lie exactly on those points, a linear interpolation/extrapolation of the two closest points will be calculated.

       There are 3 custom acceleration function, which are used for different movement types:
       ┌───────────────┬──────────────────────────────────┬──────────────────┐
       │ Movement type │  Uses                            │  supported by    │
       ├───────────────┼──────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────┤
       │ Fallback      │  Catch-all default movement type │  All devices     │
       ├───────────────┼──────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────┤
       │ Motion        │  Used for pointer motion         │  All devices     │
       ├───────────────┼──────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────┤
       │ Scroll        │  Used for scroll movement        │  Mouse, Touchpad │
       └───────────────┴──────────────────────────────────┴──────────────────┘

       See libinput library documentation of more details: https://wayland.freedesktop.org/libinput/doc/latest/pointer-acceleration.html#the-custom-acceleration-profile

BUGS
       This driver does not work with Option "Device" set to an event node in /dev/input/by-id and /dev/input/by-path. This can be usually be worked by using  Section  "InputClass"  with  an  appropriate
       Match* statement in the xorg.conf(5).

AUTHORS
       Peter Hutterer

SEE ALSO
       Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1), X(7)

1.5.0                                                                                       xf86-input-libinput                                                                                 LIBINPUT(4)
