FBDEV(4)                                                                                  Kernel Interfaces Manual                                                                                 FBDEV(4)

NAME
       fbdev - video driver for framebuffer device

SYNOPSIS
       Section "Device"
         Identifier "devname"
         Driver "fbdev"
         BusID  "pci:bus:dev:func"
         ...
       EndSection

DESCRIPTION
       fbdev  is an Xorg driver for framebuffer devices.  This is a non-accelerated driver, the following framebuffer depths are supported: 8, 15, 16, 24.  All visual types are supported for depth 8, and
       TrueColor visual is supported for the other depths.  Multi-head configurations are supported.

SUPPORTED HARDWARE
       The fbdev driver supports all hardware where a framebuffer driver is available.  fbdev uses the os-specific submodule fbdevhw(4) to talk to the kernel device driver.  Currently a fbdevhw module is
       available for linux.

CONFIGURATION DETAILS
       Please refer to xorg.conf(5) for general configuration details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.

       For this driver it is not required to specify modes in the screen section of the config file.  The fbdev driver can pick up the currently used video mode from the framebuffer driver and  will  use
       it if there are no video modes configured.

       For PCI boards you might have to add a BusID line to the Device section.  See above for a sample line.

       The following driver Options are supported:

       Option "fbdev" "string"
              The framebuffer device to use. Default: /dev/fb0.

       Option "ShadowFB" "boolean"
              Enable or disable use of the shadow framebuffer layer. Mandatory for 24bpp framebuffers on newer servers. Default: on.

       Option "Rotate" "string"
              Enable  rotation of the display. The supported values are "CW" (clockwise, 90 degrees), "UD" (upside down, 180 degrees) and "CCW" (counter clockwise, 270 degrees). Implies use of the shadow
              framebuffer layer. Disabled for 24bpp framebuffers. Default: off.

SEE ALSO
       Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1), X(7), fbdevhw(4)

AUTHORS
       Authors include: Gerd Knorr, Michel Dänzer, Geert Uytterhoeven

X Version 11                                                                               xf86-video-fbdev 0.5.0                                                                                  FBDEV(4)
