SISUSB(4)                                                                                 Kernel Interfaces Manual                                                                                SISUSB(4)

NAME
       sisusb - SiS USB video driver

SYNOPSIS
       Section "Device"
         Identifier "devname"
         Driver "sisusb"
         ...
       EndSection

DESCRIPTION
       sisusb  is an Xorg driver for SiS (Silicon Integrated Systems) video chips that are connected via a Net2280-based USB dongle. The driver is not accelerated, but provides support for colordepths of
       8, 16 and 24 bpp as well as Render and other extensions.

SUPPORTED HARDWARE
       The sisusb driver supports USB video cards based on the following chipsets:

       SiS315E/PRO

       The SiS315E/PRO features two CRT controllers. However, in its USB version, only the first output, referred to as "CRT1", is being used.

CONFIGURATION DETAILS
       Please refer to xorg.conf(5) for general configuration details and to sis(4) for more information. This manpage only covers a subset of the supported options.

       Detailed information on all supported options can be obtained at http://www.winischhofer.at/linuxsisusbvga.shtml

       Please note that this driver requires a Linux kernel driver as well which is included in Linux 2.6.12 and later, as well as available at the aforementioned website.

       The following driver Options are supported:

       Option "HWCursor" "boolean"
              Enable or disable the hardware cursor. It is not recommended to disable the hardware cursor as this will increase the amount of data transferred over the USB. Default: HWCursor is on.

       Option "SWCursor" "boolean"
              The opposite of HWCursor. This enables or disables the software cursor. This sort of cursor is slower because the pointer must be painted into  the  graphics  display.  This  increases  the
              amount of data transferred over the USB significantly. Default: SWCursor is off.

       Option "CRT1Gamma" "boolean"
              Enable or disable gamma correction.  Default: Gamma correction is on.

       Option "DisconnectTimeout" "integer"
              This  option  determines how the driver will react to a disconnection of the USB device. If the integer supplied is -1, the driver will abort the X server immediately upon disconnection. If
              the value given is 0, the driver will probe for a re-connection every 2 seconds and in case the device is detected, re-establish the display. If the value is greater than 0, the driver will
              do this re-probing within the given number of seconds and abort the server if it does not detect the device within this time-out. Default: 0 (probe forever for device reconnection).

KNOWN BUGS
       none.

SEE ALSO
       Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1), X(7), sis(4)

       http://www.winischhofer.at/linuxsisvga.shtml for more information and updates

AUTHORS
       Author: Thomas Winischhofer

X Version 11                                                                              xf86-video-sisusb 0.9.7                                                                                 SISUSB(4)
