XSTARFISH(1)                                                                            General Commands Manual                                                                           XSTARFISH(1)

NAME
       xstarfish - tiled root window wallpaper generator

SYNOPSIS
       xstarfish [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       XStarfish generates colourful, tiled images using random numbers fed through mathematical functions and draws them on the background of your desktop. It does not use source image files, so it
       can generate its images nearly forever without running out of material.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help, --usage
              Print the message you're reading now.

       -v, --version
              Current version of the program.

       -d, --daemon INTERVAL [UNITS]
              Fork  off  into the background. XStarfish will generate a pattern, sleep for INTERVAL UNITS, then repeat. Valid units are: seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks. Seconds are the default
              interval.

       -p, --pidfile
              Creates a $HOME/.xstarfish* file containing the pid of the daemon if xstarfish is forking into the background.0

       --display DISPLAY
              Name of the target display.

       -g, --geometry W[xH]
              Size of desired image. If you omit the height, a square pattern WxW will be generated.

       -o, --outfile FILE
              Specify an output file. If you use this option, xstarfish will write a png file instead of setting the X11 desktop.

       -z, --zoom X[xY]
              Zoom factor of image.  If you omit the y-scale, a uniform zoom of XxX will be applied.

       -s, --size SIZE
              An approximate size in English. Valid size arguments are small, medium, large, full, and random. Full size creates patterns the exact size of your  display's  default  monitor.  Small,
              medium, and large are randomly sizes at appropriate fractions of the default monitor size. Random can be any size from 64x64 up to the whole monitor. Size always overrides geometry.

       -r, --random SEED
              Seed for rand() call - for debugging purposes.

NOTES
       The default size is 256x256.

AUTHOR
       Mars Saxman <mars@redplanetsw.com>

                                                                                                                                                                                          XSTARFISH(1)
