XWAX(1)                                                                                   General Commands Manual                                                                                   XWAX(1)

NAME
       xwax - Digital vinyl on Linux

SYNOPSIS
       xwax [options]

DESCRIPTION
       xwax  is  vinyl emulation software for Linux. It allows DJs and turntablists to playback digital audio files (MP3, Ogg Vorbis, FLAC, AAC and more), controlled using a normal pair of turntables via
       timecoded vinyls.

OPTIONS
       The ordering of options is important. Most options apply to subsequent music libraries or decks, which can be given multiple times.  See the EXAMPLES below.

       -l, --crate path
              Scan for tracks or playlist at the given path. Tracks are grouped into a crate in the music library.

       --timecode name
              Use the named timecode for subsequent decks. See --help for a list of valid timecodes. You will need the corresponding timecode signal on vinyl to control playback.

       --33   Set the reference playback speed for subsequent decks to 33 and one third revolutions per minute. This is the default.

       --45   Set the reference playback speed for subsequent decks to 45 revolutions per minute.

       --[no-]protect
              Protect against loading new tracks or resetting the start of the track if the deck is playing. Applies to subsequent decks, and the default is off.

       --phono
              Adjust the noise thresholds of subsequent decks to tolerate a cartridge-level signal connected to a line-level audio interface. This is a 'software pre-amp'. Unless your audio path has  low
              noise, this will give worse results or may not work at all; a true phono pre-amplifier is always preferred.

       --line Set noise thresholds of subsequent decks to standard audio levels.  This reverses the effect of the --phono option, and is the default.

       --import path
              Execute the given program to load tracks for playing. The program outputs a stream of signed, little-endian, 16-bit, 2 channel audio on standard output.

       --scan path
              Execute the given program to scan music libraries. Applies to subsequent use of the --crate flag.

       --dummy
              Create a deck which is not connected to any audio device, used for testing.

       --lock-ram
              Lock into RAM any memory required for real-time use.  This includes audio tracks held in memory which can be large.  Use ulimit -l to raise the kernel's memory limit to allow this.

       --rtprio n
              Change the real-time priority of the process. A priority of 0 gives the process no priority, and is used for testing only.

       --geometry [nxn][+n+n][/f]
              Change  the  geometry of the display in size, position and scale (zoom) respectively.  The size and position is passed to SDL, which may use it to set the display mode, or size of an X win‐
              dow.  See the EXAMPLES.

       --no-decor
              Request to the window manager to create a 'frameless' window which does not have the regular controls such as title bars and buttons.  This can be useful in conjunction with the  --geometry
              flag for dedicated xwax installations.

       -h, --help
              Display the help message and default values.

ALSA DEVICE OPTIONS
       The following options are available only when xwax is compiled with ALSA support.

       --alsa device
              Create a deck which uses the given ALSA device (eg. plughw:0).

       --rate hz
              Set  the  sample  rate for subsequent decks.  The default is to prefer 48000Hz, but use 44100Hz if that is not available.  To maintain best performance, only sample rates implemented by the
              hardware are available.

       --buffer samples
              Set the ALSA buffer size for subsequent decks.  Smaller is better for lower latencies and greater responsiveness.  Set too low and audible glitches will occur, with reports of underruns  to
              the console.

JACK DEVICE OPTIONS
       The following options are available only when xwax is compiled with JACK support.

       --jack name
              Create a deck which connects to JACK and registers under the given name.

       xwax does not set the sample rate for JACK devices; it uses the sample rate given in the global JACK configuration.

OSS DEVICE OPTIONS
       The following options are available only when xwax is compiled with OSS support.

       --oss pathname
              Create a deck which uses the given OSS device (eg. /dev/dsp).

       --rate hz
              Set the sample rate for subsequent decks. The default for OSS devices is 48000Hz.

       --oss-buffers n
              Set the number of buffers used by the OSS device. Applies to subsequent decks.

       --oss-fragment n
              Set the size of a buffer used by the OSS device. The actual buffer is 2^n bytes. Applies to subsequent decks.

HARDWARE CONTROLLER OPTIONS
       The following options are available only when xwax is compiled with ALSA support.

       --dicer device
              Use one or two Dicer controllers connected as the given ALSA device (eg. hw:Dicer). See the section NOVATION DICER CONTROLS for more information.

       Adding a hardware controller results in control over subsequent decks, up to the limit of the hardware.

KEYBOARD CONTROLS
       The playback of each deck (direction, speed and position) is controlled via the incoming timecode signal from the turntables.  The keyboard provides additional controls.

       "C-" and "S-" means a keypress is combined with the 'Control' or 'Shift' key, respectively.

       Record selection controls:

       cursor up, cursor down
              Move highlighted record up/down by one.

       page up, page down
              Scroll the record listing up/down by one page.

       left cursor, right cursor
              Switch to the previous/next crate of records.

       tab    Toggle between the current crate and the 'All records' crate.

       C-tab  Toggle sort mode between: artist/track name, BPM and 'playlist' order. Playlist order is the order in which records were returned from the scanner.

       C-S-tab
              Re-scan the currently selected crate.

       To filter the current list of records type a portion of a record name. Separate multiple searches with a space, and use backspace to delete.

       Deck-specific controls:
       Deck 0   Deck 1   Deck 2
       F1       F5       F9       Load currently selected track to this deck
       F2       F6       F10      Reset start of track to the current position
       F3       F7       F11      Toggle timecode control on/off
       C-F3     C-F7     C-F11    Cycle between available timecodes

       The "available timecodes" are those which have been the subject of any --timecode flag on the command line.

       Audio display controls:

       +, -   Zoom in/out the close-up audio meters for all decks.

NOVATION DICER CONTROLS
       The Novation Dicer provides hardware control of cue points. The controls are:

       cue mode: dice button (1-5)
              Jump to the specified cue point, or set it if unset.

       loop-roll mode: dicer button (1-5)
              "Punch" to the specified cue point, or set it if unset. Returns playback to normal when the button is released.

       mode button + dice button (1-5)
              Clear the specified cue point.

       The dice buttons are lit to show that the corresponding cue point is set.

EXAMPLES
       2-deck setup using one directory of music and OSS devices:

              xwax --crate ~/music --oss /dev/dsp --oss /dev/dsp1

       As above, but using ALSA devices:

              xwax --crate ~/music --alsa hw:0 --alsa hw:1

       2-deck setup using a different timecode on each deck:

              xwax --crate ~/music --timecode serato_2a --alsa hw:0 --timecode mixvibes_v2 --alsa hw:1

       As above, but with the second deck at 45 RPM:

              xwax --crate ~/music --timecode serato_2a --alsa hw:0 --timecode mixvibes_v2 -45 --alsa hw:1

       Default to the same timecode, but allow switching at runtime:

              xwax --crate ~/music --timecode serato_2a --timecode mixvibes_v2 --alsa hw:0 --alsa hw:1

       3-deck setup with the third deck at a higher sample rate:

              xwax --crate ~/music --rate 48000 --alsa hw:0 --alsa hw:1 --rate 96000 --alsa hw:2

       Using all three device types simultaneously, one deck on each:

              xwax --crate ~/music --alsa hw:0 --oss /dev/dsp1 -j jack0

       Scan multiple music libraries:

              xwax --crate ~/music --crate ~/sounds --crate ~/mixes --alsa hw:0

       Scan a second music library using a custom script:

              xwax --crate ~/music --scan ./custom-scan --crate ~/sounds --alsa hw:0

       Control two decks with Dicer hardware:

              xwax --dicer hw:Dicer --alsa hw:0 --alsa hw:1

       Use a high resolution and enlarge the user interface:

              xwax --geometry 1920x1200/1.8 --alsa hw:0

HOMEPAGE
       http://xwax.org/

AUTHOR
       Mark Hills <mark@xwax.org>

                                                                                                                                                                                                    XWAX(1)
