XXDIFF-SCRIPTS(1)                                                                         General Commands Manual                                                                         XXDIFF-SCRIPTS(1)

NAME
       xxdiff-scripts - Tools that allow automation of tasks with xxdiff

SYNOPSIS
       xx-cvs-diff, xx-svn-diff, xx-*

DESCRIPTION
       xxdiff(1) is a graphical file and directories comparison and merge tool.

       xxdiff-scripts is a collection of python scripts around xxdiff that allows automation of various diff, review and merge tasks using xxdiff.

COMMANDS
       All the programs in xxdiff-scripts script collection support the usual GNU command line syntax and have a --help option that has detailed information about the options supported.

       svn-foreign
              svn-foreign runs 'svn status' on the given Subversion checkout directories, to find out which files are unaccounted for and allows dealing with the files interactively.

       termdiff
              This is a single file, curses-based version of xxdiff in Python (work-in-progress).

       xx-cond-replace
              xx-cond-replace is a script to conditionally replace an original by a generated file.

       xx-cvs-diff
              xx-cvs-diff invokes 'cvs diff' with the given file arguments, and allows a xxdiff preview of the current changes made in a cvs checkout.

       xx-cvs-revcmp
              xx-cvs-revcmp displays file differences with the current or a previous CVS version.

       xx-diff-proxy
              xx-diff-proxy is a wrapper script for xxdiff that presents options that are the same as the diff or diff3 commands.  This can be used with programs that expect to call diff/diff3 to present
              differences to users, and can be configured with a different diff program.

       xx-encrypted
              xx-encrypted is a script to compare and merge contents of encrypted files relatively safely.

       xx-filter
              xx-filter walks a directory hierarchy, selects some files to be processed, performs replacements in files and confirms the application of changes via xxdiff.

       xx-find-grep-sed
              xx-find-grep-sed walks a directory hierarchy, selects some files to be processed and performs global sed-like replacements in the set of files.

       xx-hg-merge
              xx-hg-merge implements an interface compatible with hgmerge.  Basically, it needs to exit with 0 on success, and to place the results of the merge in the 'left' file.

       xx-match
              xx-match is a script for invoking xxdiff on matching files using the basename of the files.

       xx-p4-unmerge
              A wrapper script that will split up a p4 file with merge conflicts to three files and invoke xxdiff on it.

       xx-pyline
              xx-pyline walks a directory hierarchy, selects some files to be processed and runs a given Python code on each line of the input.  xxdiff is presented to confirm application of the changes.

       xx-rename
              xx-rename  walks  a directory hierarchy, selects some files to be processed and perform a replacement of a one string to another in the files and confirm the application of changes via xxd‐
              iff.

       xx-sql-schemas
              xx-sql-schemas dumps the schemas for two PostgreSQL databases, re-orders the contents so that they diff nicely, and spawns xxdiff on the results.

       xx-svn-diff
              xx-svn-diff invokes xxdiff for all modified files in the given Subversion checkout area.

       xx-svn-resolve
              xx-svn-resolve invokes xxdiff with a 3-way merge view for all files in a Subversion checkout whose conflicts need to be resolved.  Depending on the exit status, xxdiff also calls  'svn  re‐
              solve' on the files.

       xx-svn-review
              xx-svn-review exports two SVN revision and reviews them.

SEE ALSO
       /usr/share/doc/xxdiff-scripts/html/xxdiff-scripts.html
              A description of the Python scripts and infrastructure that is provided around xxdiff, to facilitate implementing processes requiring display and selection of differences.

       /usr/share/doc/xxdiff-scripts/txt/xxdiff-scripts.txt.gz
              The above documentation in plain text.

       xxdiff(1)
              The xxdiff manual page

AUTHOR
       xxdiff was written by Martin Blais <blais@furius.ca>

       This manual page was written by Y Giridhar Appaji Nag <giridhar@appaji.net> for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

                                                                                               02 March 2008                                                                              XXDIFF-SCRIPTS(1)
