APPFEED.CGI(1)                                                     General Commands Manual                                                     APPFEED.CGI(1)

NAME
       appfeed.cgi - Xymon CGI feeder for Smartphone apps

SYNOPSIS
       appfeed.cgi [options]

DESCRIPTION
       appfeed.cgi is invoked as a CGI script via the appfeed.sh CGI wrapper.

       appfeed.cgi is optionally passed a QUERY_STRING environment variable with the "filter=FILTER" parameter. FILTER is a filter for the "xymondboard" com‐
       mand  sent to xymond(8) daemon. These filters are described in detail in the xymon(1) manual. Typically, the filter will specify hosts found on a spe‐
       cific (sub)page to be returned, e.g. "filter=page=webservers" will cause appfeed.cgi to only return hosts that are present on the "webservers" page in
       Xymon.

       If no filter is specified, appfeed.cgi returns data for all red, yellow or purple statuses (equivalent to the data  present  on  the  "All  non-green"
       page), or if invoked with the "--critical" option it returns data from the "Critical systems" page.

       The output is an XML document with the current status of the selected hosts/services.

OPTIONS
       --env=FILENAME
              Loads the environment from FILENAME before executing the CGI.

       --critical[=FILENAME]
              FILENAME  specifies  the "Critical Systems" configuration file (default: critical.cfg).  appfeed.cgi will only return the statuses currently on
              the "Critical Systems" view.

       --access=FILENAME
              In addition to the filtering done by the "filter" parameter or the "--critical" option, this option limits the output to hosts  that  the  user
              has access to as defined in the Apache-compatible group-definitions in FILENAME. See xymon-webaccess(5) for more details of this.  Note: Use of
              this option requires that access to the appfeed.cgi tool is password-protected by whatever means your webserver software provides, and that the
              login  userid is available via the REMOTE_USER environment variable (this is standard CGI behaviour, so all webservers should provide it if you
              use the webserver's built-in authentication mechanisms).

SEE ALSO
       xymon(1), critical.cfg(5), xymon-webaccess(5)

Xymon                                                            Version 4.3.30:  4 Sep 2019                                                   APPFEED.CGI(1)
