LOGFETCH(1)                                                        General Commands Manual                                                        LOGFETCH(1)

NAME
       logfetch - Xymon client data collector

SYNOPSIS
       logfetch [options] CONFIGFILE STATUSFILE

DESCRIPTION
       logfetch  is part of the Xymon client. It is responsible for collecting data from logfiles, and other file-related data, which is then sent to the Xy‐
       mon server for analysis.

       logfetch uses a configuration file, which is automatically retrieved from the Xymon server. There is no configuration done locally. The  configuration
       file  is  usually  stored in the $XYMONHOME/tmp/logfetch.cfg file, but editing this file has no effect since it is re-written with data from the Xymon
       server each time the client runs.

       logfetch stores information about what parts of the monitored logfiles have been processed already in the  $XYMONHOME/tmp/logfetch.status  file.  This
       file is an internal file used by logfetch, and should not be edited. If deleted, it will be re-created automatically.

OPTIONS
       --debug[=stderr]
              Enables debug mode. Note that when run by the xymonclient, debug output may be written into the client data report, which can cause false posi‐
              tives and other unintended side effects. Use '=stderr' to cause the output to be written to stderr instead.

       --noexec
              The  client-local.cfg(5) section for this host, class, or OS is automatically retrieved from the server during client submission.  Logfetch can
              be requested to execute arbitrary commands to generate a list of log files to examine dynamically, but this can present a security risk in some
              environments. Set this option to prevent logfetch from executing requested commands

SECURITY
       logfetch needs read access to the logfiles it should monitor. If you configure monitoring of files or directories through the "file:" and  "dir:"  en‐
       tries  in client-local.cfg(5) then logfetch will require at least read-access to the directory where the file is located. If you request checksum cal‐
       culation for a file, then it must be readable by the Xymon client user.

       Do NOT install logfetch as suid-root. There is no way that logfetch can check whether the configuration file it uses has been tampered  with,  so  in‐
       stalling  logfetch  with  suid-root  privileges  could allow an attacker to read any file on the system by using a hand-crafted configuration file. In
       fact, logfetch will attempt to remove its own suid-root setup if it detects that it has been installed suid-root.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       DU     Command used to collect information about the size of directories.  By default, this is the command du -k.  If  the  local  du-command  on  the
              client  does  not recognize the "-k" option, you should set the DU environment variable in the $XYMONHOME/etc/xymonclient.cfg file to a command
              that does report directory sizes in kilobytes.

FILES
       $XYMONHOME/tmp/logfetch.cfg

       $XYMONHOME/tmp/logfetch.status

SEE ALSO
       xymon(7), analysis.cfg(5), client-local.cfg(5)

Xymon                                                            Version 4.3.30:  4 Sep 2019                                                      LOGFETCH(1)
