
YADEX(6)                                                                                          Games Manual                                                                                         YADEX(6)

NAME
       yadex - a Doom/Heretic/Strife level editor

SYNOPSIS
       yadex -?|-help|--help
       yadex --version
       yadex [options] [file ...]
       yadex [options] -b string [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Yadex  can be used to view, create and modify levels for Doom, Ultimate Doom, Doom II, Final Doom, Doom press release pre beta and Heretic.  It also supports, to a lesser extent, Doom alpha, Hexen and
       Strife.

       See README for a quick start.
       To know what's new in this release, see CHANGES.
       The rest of documentation is in doc/index.html (HTML format).

OPTIONS
       Boolean options can be negated by using + instead of -.  For example, +v would disable verbose mode even if verbose is set to 1 in the configuration file. For non boolean options, + is equivalent to -
       (note: the fact that a misimplementation is documented should not be construed as an incitement to make use of it).

       For options that take a parameter, the option and the parameter must be in separate command-line arguments, i.e. you cannot write -gdoom.

       It is not possible to run options together, i.e. you can't use -dv as short for -d -v.

       The -- "end-of-options" convention is not supported.

       -?, -help, --help
              Print usage summary to stdout and exit successfully.

       -b string
              Run a benchmark on some part of Yadex and exit successfully. See the benchmark() function for further details.

       -d, -debug
              Debug mode.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the debug directive of the configuration file.

       -expert
              Expert  mode.  Enforces  default choices for certain dialogs. As those default choices are IMHO not all judicious, I don't recommend using this option. Check insert_vertex_split_linedef and in‐
              sert_vertex_merge_vertices instead.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the expert directive of the configuration file.

       -f, -config_file file
              Use file as the config file instead of the default.

       -fc, -fake_cursor
              (X11 only) Fake cursor. Currently, this option is a no-op.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the fake_cursor directive of the configuration file.

       -fn, -font string
              (X11 only) Use font string.  If no font is specified or if the specified font is not found, Yadex falls back on the default font of the X server.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the
              font directive of the configuration file.

       -g, -game string
              Set the game to string, which can be one of the following:

              • doom      Doom or Ultimate Doom
              • doom02    Doom alpha 0.2
              • doom04    Doom alpha 0.4
              • doom05    Doom alpha 0.5
              • doom2     Doom II or Final Doom
              • doompr    Doom press release pre-beta
              • heretic   Heretic
              • hexen     Hexen
              • strife    Strife 1.1 and later
              • strife10  Strife 1.0

              This option is equivalent to and overrides the game directive of the configuration file.

       -h, -height integer
              (X11 only) Initial height of the window. If the argument is just a number, the height of the window will be that many pixels. If the argument is a number followed by a percent sign (%), it will
              be that many percent of the width of the screen. The default is 90%.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the height directive of the configuration file.  See also -w.

       -i1, -iwad1 file
              The name of the Doom or Ultimate Doom iwad.  This option has effect only if the game is doom.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the iwad1 directive of the configuration file.

       -i2, -iwad2 file
              The name of the Doom II or Final Doom iwad.  This option has effect only if the game is doom2.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the iwad2 directive of the configuration file.

       -i3, -iwad3 file
              The name of the Heretic iwad.  This option has effect only if the game is heretic.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the iwad3 directive of the configuration file.

       -i4, -iwad4 file
              The name of the Hexen iwad.  This option has effect only if the game is hexen.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the iwad4 directive of the configuration file.

       -i5, -iwad5 file
              The name of the Strife iwad.  This option has effect only if the game is strife.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the iwad5 directive of the configuration file.

       -i6, -iwad6 file
              The name of the Doom alpha 0.2 iwad.  This option has effect only if the game is doom02.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the iwad6 directive of the configuration file.

       -i7, -iwad7 file
              The name of the Doom alpha 0.4 iwad.  This option has effect only if the game is doom04.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the iwad7 directive of the configuration file.

       -i8, -iwad8 file
              The name of the Doom alpha 0.5 iwad.  This option has effect only if the game is doom05.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the iwad8 directive of the configuration file.

       -i9, -iwad9 file
              The name of the Doom press release pre-beta iwad.  This option has effect only if the game is doompr.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the iwad9 directive of the configuration file.

       -i10, -iwad10 file
              The name of the Strife 1.0 iwad.  This option has effect only if the game is strife10.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the iwad10 directive of the configuration file.

       -pw, -pwad file
              [Deprecated] Load pwad file. This option is useless since pwads can be given as arguments anyway. It's there for backward compatibility only.  This option is equivalent  to  and  overrides  the
              pwad directive of the configuration file.

       -P, -no_pixmap
              (X11  only)  Use no pixmap. Makes Yadex more responsive at the cost of a lot of flickering. Off by default.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the no_pixmap directive of the configura‐
              tion file.

       -q, -quiet
              In theory, quiet mode. In practice, has no effect.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the quiet directive of the configuration file.

       -qq, -quieter
              Quieter. Makes Yadex completely silent (beepless).  This option is equivalent to and overrides the quieter directive of the configuration file.

       -s0, -select0
              Select the 0th object automatically whenever the editing mode is set.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the select0 directive of the configuration file.

       -sb, -swap_buttons
              Swap mouse buttons. Currently, this option is a no-op.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the swap_buttons directive of the configuration file.

       -td, -text_dot
              Debug the DrawScreenText() function.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the text_dot directive of the configuration file.

       -v, -verbose
              Verbose mode.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the verbose directive of the configuration file.

       --version
              Print version information to stdout and exit successfully.

              The first line contain three fields, separated by white space, with no other punctuation. The first field is the name of the program ("Yadex"). The second field is the  version  number  ("$VER‐
              SION"). The third field is the release date, between parentheses ("($SOURCE_DATE)").

              The second line contains a configuration file magic string (not used).

              The third line contains the magic string that this version requires at the beginning of game definition files.

       -w, -width dimension
              (X11  only)  Initial width of the window. If the argument is just a number, the width of the window will be that many pixels. If the argument is a number followed by a percent sign (%), it will
              be that many percent of the width of the screen. The default is 90%.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the width directive in the configuration file.  See also -h.

       -z, -zoom_default integer
              Initial zoom factor in percent. The default is 0, which means that the zoom factor is to be adjusted so that the level fills the window.  This option is equivalent to and overrides the zoom_de‐
              fault directive of the configuration file.

FILES
   Configuration files
       $FILES_ETC

   Game definition files
       $FILES_SHARE

   Swap files
       $TMPDIR/yadexswp??????
       /tmp/yadexswp??????

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       DISPLAY
              X11 only. The name of the X display that Yadex will try to connect to.

       HOME   Used to expand ~ when locating configuration and game definition files.

       LINES  If set, Yadex assumes the tty has that many lines instead of 24.  The value must be an unsigned, non-zero decimal integer.

       TMPDIR If set, swap files are created there. Otherwise, in /tmp.

       YADEX_GAME
              Indicates the game to use. Overrides the game parameter in the config file, is overridden by the -g command line option.

APPLICATION RESOURCES
       None. Yadex does not use the X resources system.

EXIT STATUS
       0  OK.
       1  Incorrect invocation.
       >1 Fatal error.

BUGS
       In certain circumstances, exposures are not handled.  If the Yadex window turns black, back out by pressing [Esc], several times if necessary.

       If you edit a level from a file that contains several and save it, all the other levels from that file are lost.

       And many more. See TODO.

AUTHOR
       André Majorel (http://www.teaser.fr/~amajorel/)

       Contributors:
       Andrew J. Apted (http://www.netspace.net.au/~ajapted/)
       Matthew W. Miller (zbp+ee+fhozhybp=eryyvzjz)

       Yadex is derived from DEU 5.21 that was written by Raphaël Quinet, Brendon Wyber and others.

       See the HTML documentation for detailed credits.

LEGAL
   Yadex
       $COPYRIGHT_MAN

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License,
       or (at your option) any later version.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General
       Public License for more details.

       You  should  have  received  a  copy  of  the  GNU  Library  General Public License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA
       02111-1307, USA.

   Atclib
       The Yadex distribution includes a subset of Atclib.

       Atclib is copyright André Majorel 1995-1999 and distributed under the terms of version 2 of the GNU Library General Public License.

       This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of version 2 of the GNU Library General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation.

       This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Library
       General Public License for more details.

       You  should  have  received  a  copy  of  the  GNU  Library General Public License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA
       02111-1307, USA

   Boost
       The Yadex distribution includes a subset of Boost 1.25.0.

       Boost 1.25.0 is copyright various authors and released under the following terms : Permission to copy, use, modify, sell and distribute this software is granted provided this copyright notice  appears
       in all copies.  This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty, and with no claim as to its suitability for any purpose.

SEE ALSO
       bsp(6), idbsp(6), tkwadcad(6), warm(6), xwadtools(6)

       LDE    http://interreality.org/~tetron/technology/lde/

       PFME   http://www.purplefrog.com/~thoth/purplefrog/editor.html

       Why    http://www.hut.fi/~jpakkane/why/

       Xwad (part of Dumb)
              http://stekt.oulu.fi/~tosi/dumb/dumb.html

       Xwadtools
              ftp://3darchives.in-span.net/pub/idgames/source/

Yadex $VERSION                                                                                    $SOURCE_DATE                                                                                         YADEX(6)
