YARD(1)                                                                                                                                                                                             YARD(1)

NAME
       yard - documentation tool for Ruby

SYNOPSIS
       yard command [options]

DESCRIPTION
       yard is an extensible documentation generation tool for the Ruby programming language. It enables the user to generate consistent, usable documentation that can be exported to a number of formats
       very easily, and also supports extending for custom Ruby constructs such as custom class level definitions.

       Below are listed the commands that can be passed to the yard on the command line. For more details about a command, use yard help command from the command line.

COMMANDS
       config
           Views or edits current global configuration

       diff
           Returns the object diff of two gems or .yardoc files

       display
           Displays a formatted object

       doc Generates documentation. yardoc(1) is a synonym of yard doc.

       gems
           Builds YARD index for gems

       graph
           Graphs class diagram using Graphviz

       help
           Retrieves help for a command

       i18n
           Generates .pot file from source code and extra documentation

       list
           Lists all constant and methods. Uses yard doc --list.

       markups
           Lists all available markup types and libraries

       ri  A tool to view documentation in the console like ri(1). yri(1) is a synonym of yard ri.

       server
           Runs a local documentation server

       stats
           Prints documentation statistics on a set of files

SEE ALSO
       yardoc(1), yri(1).

AUTHORS
       yard has been developed by Loren Segal <lsegal@soen.ca>.

       This manual page has been written for the Debian Project by Cédric Boutillier (but may used by others).

0.9.37                                                                                           2025-02-04                                                                                         YARD(1)
