YEXPAND(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  YEXPAND(1)

NAME
       yexpand - tool to expand environment variables in Nypatchy cradles

SYNOPSIS
       yexpand inputfile [ outputfile ]

DESCRIPTION
       yexpand  is  a  very simple script to expand environment variables in a text file to their current values in the shell environment.  It was written to be used with nypatchy cradles.  It is recommended
       you not try to use it for any other purposes (note BUGS below).

USAGE
       yexpand takes inputfile as input, replaces all instances of shell variables (in the form $VARIABLE or ${VARIABLE}) with their current values in the environment, and saves  the  result  to  outputfile.
       Undefined  variables  are replaced with the empty string.  If outputfile is not given, the result is instead saved to the current directory as a file of the same name as inputfile.  Thus an input file
       in the current directory will be overwritten.

BUGS
       This script is very simple-minded.  Since it basically just echos its input file as a here-doc, it will attempt to perform all types of shell substitution (command substitution, etc.) as well as vari‐
       able substitution.  Hence it is likely to fail on anything except the very simplest text files.

       Additionally, this script creates a temporary file.  The file is created in the current directory, so there should not be security implications.  However, any existing file named file.yexp (where file
       is the basename of inputfile) in the current directory will be overwritten and then deleted.

SEE ALSO
       fcasplit(1), nycheck(1), nydiff(1), nyindex(1), nylist(1), nymerge(1), nypatchy(1), nyshell(1), nysynopt(1), nytidy(1)

       The reference manual for the Nypatchy suite of programs is available in compressed PostScript format at the following URL:
       http://wwwasdoc.web.cern.ch/wwwasdoc/psdir/p5refman.ps.gz

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Kevin McCarty <kmccarty@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).  It is licensed under the GNU General  Public  License,  version  2  or
       later (at your choice).

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) Kevin B. McCarty, 2008.

                                                                                                  Mar 12, 2008                                                                                       YEXPAND(1)
