ZCRYPTCTL(8)                                                           System Manager's Manual                                                          ZCRYPTCTL(8)

NAME
       zcryptctl - display information and administrate zcrypt multiple device nodes

SYNOPSIS
       zcryptctl list

       zcryptctl create
               [ node-name ]

       zcryptctl destroy
               node-name

       zcryptctl addap
               | delap node-name adapter-nr

       zcryptctl adddom
               | deldom node-name domain-nr

       zcryptctl addioctl
               | delioctl node-name ioctl-term

       zcryptctl config
               config-file

       zcryptctl listconfig

DESCRIPTION
       The zcryptctl command displays information and maintains the multi device node extension for the zcrypt device driver.

       With  the  multi  device node extension you can create and configure additional zcrypt device nodes which can be used as alternate device nodes to access the
       crypto hardware provided by the zcrypt device driver. Each zcrypt device node can be restricted in terms of crypto cards, domains, and available ioctls. Such
       a device node can be used as a base for container solutions like Docker to control and restrict the access to crypto resources.

COMMANDS
       zcryptctl list
               Show all the additional device nodes that are currently active.

       zcryptctl create
               [ node-name ] Create a new zcrypt device node. The node-name might be given and needs to be unique and not in use. If there is no node name provided,
               the zcrypt device driver will create a new one with pattern zcrypt_x, with x being the next free number. Up to 256 additional  device  nodes  can  be
               created.  The newly created additional device node appears in /dev and has read and write permissions enabled only for root. By default all adapters,
               domains and ioctls are initially disabled on this new device node.

       zcryptctl destroy
               node-name Destroy an additional zcrypt device node. The device node is only marked for disposal and destroyed when it is no longer used.

       zcryptctl addap
               | delap node-name adapter-nr Update the filter for the specified zcrypt device node and add or delete a crypto adapter  to  be  accessible  via  this
               node. The symbol ALL can be used to enable or disable all adapters.

       zcryptctl adddom
               |  deldom  node-name  domain-nr Update the filter for the specified zcrypt device node and add or delete a domain to be accessible through this node.
               The symbol ALL can be used to enable or disable all domains.

       zcryptctl addioctl
               | delioctl node-name ioctl-term Update the filter for the specified zcrypt device node and add or delete an ioctl. The ioctl might  be  specified  as
               symbolic  string  (one  of  ICARSAMODEXPO,  ICARSACRT,  ZSECSENDCPRB,  ZSENDEP11CPRB,  ZCRYPT_DEVICE_STATUS,  ZCRYPT_STATUS_MASK, ZCRYPT_QDEPTH_MASK,
               ZCRYPT_PERDEV_REQCNT) or numeric value in the range 0-255 and the symbol ALL can be used to include all ioctls.

       zcryptctl config
               config-file Process a config file. The given configuration file is read line by line and the settings are applied. Syntax is simple:

               node=<node-name>

               aps=<list of ap numbers separated by space, tab or ','>

               doms=<list of domain numbers separated by space, tab or ','>

               ioctls=<list of ioctl as numeric or symbolic number separated by space, tab or ','>

               Empty lines are ignored and the '#' marks the rest of the line as comment.

               The node= line creates a new zcrypt device node, the aps=, doms= and ioctls= lines customize the previously created node. The symbol ALL is also rec‐
               ognized for aps, doms, and ioctls.

               Each  action  must  fit into one line, spreading over multiple lines is not supported. But you can use more than one aps=, doms= and ioctls= lines to
               customize the very same node.

               Processing stops when a line cannot be parsed or the current action fails. In this case the exit status is non zero but the successful actions  until
               the failure occurs are not rolled back.

       zcryptctl listconfig
               List the current configuration in a form suitable for input to the zcryptctl config command.

EXIT STATUS
       On  successful  completion  of the command the exit status is 0. A non zero return code (and some kind of failure message) is emitted if the processing could
       not complete successful.

SEE ALSO
       lszcrypt(8)

s390-tools                                                                    AUG 2018                                                                  ZCRYPTCTL(8)
