icegridnode(1)                                                                            General Commands Manual                                                                            icegridnode(1)

NAME
       icegridnode - The IceGrid node server.

SYNOPSIS
       icegridnode [options]

DESCRIPTION
       An  IceGrid  node  is a process that activates, monitors, and deactivates registered server processes. You can run any number of nodes in a domain, but typically there is one node per host. A node
       must be running on each host on which servers are activated automatically, and nodes cannot run without an IceGrid registry. The IceGrid node server is implemented by the  icegridnode  executable.
       If you wish to run a registry and node in one process, icegridnode is the executable you must use. Full documentation for icegridnode is available online at:
       https://doc.zeroc.com/ice/3.7/ice-services/icegrid/icegrid-server-reference/icegridnode

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Displays help message.

       -v, --version
              Displays the Ice version.

       --daemon
              Run as a daemon.

       --pidfile FILE
              Write process ID into FILE.

       --noclose
              Do not close open file descriptors.

       --nochdir
              Do not change the current working directory.

       --nowarn
              Do not print security warnings.

       --readonly
              Start the collocated master registry in read-only mode.

       --initdb-from-replica REPLICA
              Initialize the collocated registry database from the given replica.

       --deploy DESCRIPTOR [TARGET1 [TARGET2 ...]]
              Add or update descriptor in file DESCRIPTOR, with optional targets.

SEE ALSO
       icegridadmin(1), icegriddb(1), icegridregistry(1)

                                                                                                                                                                                             icegridnode(1)
