ZIPMERGE(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                              ZIPMERGE(1)

NAME
       zipmerge — merge zip archives

SYNOPSIS
       zipmerge [-DhIiSsV] target-zip source-zip [source-zip ...]

DESCRIPTION
       zipmerge  copies  files from the source zip archives source-zip to the target zip archive target-zip.  By default, files in the source zip archives overwrite existing files of the same name in the
       target zip archive.  By default, compressed files in the source archive are copied directly without recompression, uncompressed files are compressed using the default compression algorithm.

       Supported options:

       -D   Ignore directory components in file name comparisons.  This option is slow for archives with many files.

       -h   Display a short help message and exit.

       -I   Ignore case in file name comparisons This option is slow for archives with many files.

       -i   Ask before overwriting files.  See also -s.

       -k   Do not compress files that were uncompressed in source-zip, otherwise they are compressed with the default compression method.

       -S   Do not overwrite files that have the same name, size, and CRC32 in both the source and target archives.

       -s   When -i is given, do not ask before overwriting files that have the same name, size, and CRC32.

       -V   Display version information and exit.

EXIT STATUS
       zipmerge exits 0 on success and >1 if an error occurred.

SEE ALSO
       zipcmp(1), ziptool(1), libzip(3)

HISTORY
       zipmerge was added in libzip 0.6.

AUTHORS
       Dieter Baron <dillo@nih.at> and Thomas Klausner <wiz@gatalith.at>

CAVEATS
       zipmerge uses one open file descriptor per zip archive.  If you need to merge a lot of zip archives, check your shell's file descriptor ulimit and either increase it or run zipmerge multiple times
       with e.g. 1000 source zip archives each time.

Debian                                                                                        November 7, 2023                                                                                  ZIPMERGE(1)
