ZITA-LRX(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               ZITA-LRX(1)

NAME
       zita-lrx - zita-lrx is a command line application providing crossover filters for Jack Audio Connection Kit

SYNOPSIS
       zita-lrx [options][configfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the zita-lrx

       This manual page was written for the Debian distribution because the original program does not have a manual page.

       zita-lrx   is  command  line jack application providing 2, 3, or 4-band, 4th order crossover filters.  The filter type is continuously variable between Linkwitz-Riley (-6dB at the xover frequency)
       and Butterworth (-3 dB at the xover frequency).  Outputs are exactly phase matched in the crossover regions. The application supports up to 16 channels.  Configuration is  by  a  text  file  using
       'OSC' style syntax (similar to Ambdec and Jconvolver).

       Apart from the basic filter parameters, the following can be set:

         - Channel labels (used for naming Jack ports).

         - Frequency band names (used in output port names).

         - Optional output autoconnections.

         - For each channel: gain and delay (in ms).

         - For each frequency band: gain and delay.

OPTIONS
         -h
              Display short info

         -N <name>
              Name to use as jack client

         -s <server>
              Jack server name

       SEE ALSO
              jackd(1).

AUTHOR
       zita-lrx was written by Fons Adriaensen <fons@linuxaudio.org>.

       This manual page was written by Debian Multimedia Maintainers <pkg-multimedia-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org> for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

                                                                                              February 6, 2012                                                                                  ZITA-LRX(1)
