()                                                                                                                                                         ()

zxc(1)
   NAME
       zxc - High-performance asymmetric lossless compression

   SYNOPSIS
       zxc [OPTIONS] [INPUT-FILE] [OUTPUT-FILE]

   DESCRIPTION
       zxc is a command-line interface for the ZXC compression library, a high-performance lossless compression algorithm optimized for maximum decompression
       throughput.

       zxc is designed for the “Write Once, Read Many” paradigm.  It trades compression speed to generate a bitstream specifically structured to maximize de‐
       compression speed, effectively offloading complexity from the decoder to the encoder.  It aims to provide very high decompression speeds across modern
       architectures while maintaining competitive compression ratios.  ZXC is particularly suited for scenarios such as Game Assets, Firmware or App Bundles
       where data is compressed once on a build server and decompressed millions of times on user devices.

       By default, zxc compresses a single INPUT-FILE.  If no OUTPUT-FILE is provided, zxc will automatically append the .xc extension to the input filename.
       If no INPUT-FILE is provided, zxc will read from standard input (stdin) and write to standard output (stdout).

   STANDARD MODES
       -z, –compress
              Compress FILE.  This is the default mode if no mode is specified.

       -d, –decompress
              Decompress FILE.

       -l, –list
              List archive information, including compressed size, uncompressed size, compression ratio, and checksum method.

       -t, –test
              Test the integrity of a compressed FILE.  It decodes the file and verifies its checksum (if present) without writing any output.

       -b, –bench [N]
              Benchmark in-memory performance.  Loads the input file entirely into RAM and measures raw algorithm throughput (default duration is 5 seconds).

   OPTIONS
       -m, –multiple
              Process multiple files at once.  When specified, all subsequent non-option arguments are treated as input files.  For each input file, a corre‐
              sponding  .xc file is created (or decompressed into its original name).  Output cannot be written to standard output (stdout) when this mode is
              enabled.

       -r, –recursive
              Recursively process directories.  When specified, any directory listed as an argument will be traversed, and all regular files within  it  will
              be processed (compressed or decompressed).  This option implicitly enables --multiple mode.

       -1..-5 Set  the  compression  level from 1 (fastest compression) to 5 (highest density).  - -1, -2 (Fast): Optimized for real-time assets or when com‐
              pression speed is a priority.  - -3 (Default): Balanced middle-ground offering efficient compression and superior ratio to fast codecs.  -  -4,
              -5 (Compact): Best choice for distribution, archival or firmware.

       -T, –threads N
              Set  the  number  of  threads to use for compression and decompression.  A value of 0 means auto-detection based on the number of available CPU
              cores.

       -C, –checksum
              Enable block hashing during compression using the rapidhash algorithm.  Recommended for data integrity validation.   Checksum  verification  is
              automatically performed during extraction when enabled.

       -N, –no-checksum
              Explicitly disable checksum generation.

       -k, –keep
              Keep  the input file after compression or decompression.  (Currently, the input file is preserved by default, but this flag ensures compatibil‐
              ity with future changes).

       -f, –force
              Force overwrite of the OUTPUT-FILE if it already exists.

       -c, –stdout
              Force writing to standard output (stdout), even if it is the console.

       -v, –verbose
              Enable verbose logging mode.  Outputs more detailed information during operations.

       -q, –quiet
              Enable quiet mode, suppressing all non-error output (such as progress bars or real-time statistics).

       -j, –json
              Output results in JSON format.  This is particularly useful for scripting, benchmarking, and the --list mode.

   SPECIAL OPTIONS
       -V, –version
              Display the version of the zxc library and the compiled architecture information, then exit.

       -h, –help
              Display a help message and exit.

   EXAMPLES
       Compress a file: zxc data.txt

       Compress a file with high density (Level 5): zxc -5 data.bin

       Decompress a file: zxc -d data.txt.xc

       Compress multiple files independently: zxc -m file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt

       Compress all files in a directory recursively: zxc -r ./my_folder

       Decompress all files in a directory recursively: zxc -d -r ./my_folder

       Decompress a file to standard output: zxc -dc data.txt.xc > data.txt

       List archive information: zxc -l data.txt.xc

       Run a benchmark for 10 seconds: zxc -b 10 data.txt

   AUTHORS
       Written by Bertrand Lebonnois & contributors.

   LICENSE
       BSD 3-Clause License.

                                                                                                                                                           ()
